sample_article	Country	year	article_number	New Type	Content	Female 	 Male	Female 	 Male	female_diff	Male_diff	FEMALE_ERROR	male_error	female_score	Male_score
42	Australia	2007	1	Political	"SYDNEY, Dec 31 (Reuters) - BHP Billiton Ltd , Australia's largest oil and gas producer, said it expects to resume production at its 80,000 barrels per day (bpd) Stybarrow oil field in Western Australia on Monday after a cyclone threat passed.. 

""Stybarrow production is planned to recommence at reduced rates by approximately midday today Western Australian time,"" BHP's spokeswoman Emma Meade said in an e-mail statement. 
"	2	1	2	1	0	0		1	2	1
84	Australia	2003	7	Corporate	"SYDNEY, Dec 29 (Reuters) - Shares in Australia's Gympie Gold Ltd (GYM.AX) were suspended on Monday after the company said abnormal gas levels had raised the potential for an explosion at its Southland coal mine, forcing the evacuation of employees. 

""No persons will re-enter the mine until a safe working environment has been re-established,"" the company said. 
 
TD 
 The eastern Australia colliery's monitoring equipment had detected abnormal gas levels at the mine ""which indicates increased potential for spontaneous combustion of in-situ coal,"" it said. 

Customers of the mine were being advised of a need to re-schedule some shipments, the company said. 

Management was taking action to cool heating in the mine, which could take up to a week to complete, leaving the mine idle for some weeks, it said. 

A statement to the Australian Stock Exchange made no mention of any injuries and company officials were not immediately available for comment. 

Gympie, which also mines gold in eastern Australia, last traded at 56 cents a share. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
92	Australia	1992	11	Political	"SYDNEY, Dec 21, Reuter - Results on the final day of four-day Sheffield Shield cricket matches on Monday: 

In Adelaide: New South Wales 399 for five declared and 204 for seven declared, South Australia 215 and 379 (Tim Nielsen 84, Joe Scuderi 50). New South Wales won by nine runs. 
 
TD 
 In Perth: Western Australia 417 and 268 for nine (M. Atkinson 52 not out), Tasmania 457 for nine declared (D. Hills 138). Match drawn. 

In Perth, Western Australia's tail-end batsmen steered their side away from any possibility of defeat against Tasmania at the WACA ground. 

Western Australia slumped to 167 for seven at one stage, just 127 ahead, after Shaun Young had taken five for 37 in an eight-over spell, but the home side finished safe enough on 268 for nine, Mark Atkinson making an unbeaten 52
 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
103	Australia	2002	23	Political	"SYDNEY, Dec 13 (Reuters) - Detained Indonesian cleric Abu Bakar Bashir has told a newspaper that Australia would be ""destroyed instantly"" if it struck pre-emptively against a Muslim country to prevent an attack by Islamic militants. 

In an interview conducted on Wednesday and published in The Sydney Morning Herald on Friday, Bashir said conservative Prime Minister John Howard was an ally of ""George W. Bush, the worst and most evil president in the world"". 
 
TD 
 He said Howard's controversial affirmation of Australia's right to launch a pre-emptive strike in another country if it found out that militants planned an attack was a ""crazy idea"" - echoing the outrage expressed by Southeast Asian governments. 

""Australian people, God willing, have no problem with Islam. However, usually, Australian leaders do influence their people a lot to make enemy of Islam, especially the incumbent prime minister,"" Bashir told the paper from a hospital bed in Jakarta, where he is being questioned by police. 

""So, if John Howard's stance is followed by people of Australia, you have to know that there will be war in the world and God willing Australia will be destroyed instantly due to the crazy idea of its prime minister,"" he added. 

The frail and elderly cleric is being questioned by Indonesian police with regard to a bombing campaign against Christian churches. 

The newspaper said it submitted questions to Bashir through an aide who recorded the answers for the Herald. 

The Australian government has suggested the United Nations charter ought to be reformed to take account of a new era of intra-state conflict in the aftermath of the September 11, 2001, attacks on the United States. 

Howard and his defence minister argue that the concept of self defence needs to be expanded to legalise pre-emptive strikes in other countries against suspected militants - a view instantly condemned as ""an act of war"" by Malaysia and denounced by Indonesia, the Philippines and other neighbours in the region. 

In the wide-ranging interview with the Herald, Bashir again denied accusations from regional governments that he was the spiritual leader of radical Southeast Asian Islamic group Jemaah Islamiah and questioned the network's very existence. 

He also denied any knowledge of the October 12 bombings in Bali, which killed more than 180 people, including almost 90 Australians, and instead reiterated his claim that it was an American plot to defame Islam. 

Investigators say they are finding threads linking Bashir to the alleged perpetrators of the Bali attacks, but the cleric told the Herald he did not know any of the people detained in connection with Bali. 

He also rejected reports that he had visited Australia up to 11 times in the 1990s, saying he had been to the island continent ""a couple of times"" at the invitation of local Indonesian and Malaysian Muslims who asked him to conduct religious lectures. 

He said he had no ""relations"" or networks with Australian Muslims. 
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
235	Australia	1996	24	Corporate	"SYDNEY, Dec 24 (Reuter) - Stadium developer Stadium Australia extended the offer period for its gold and platinum packages to March 27, and confirmed that corporations were now able to purchase gold packages. 

The move followed an announcement earlier this month that if the offer period was extended to March 27, it would include corporate investors. 
 
TD 
 ""SOCOG (Sydney Organising Committee for the Olympic Games) has confirmed that corporations are now available to purchase gold packages without specifying individual nominees for the Olympic tickets,"" Stadium Australia's chief executive officer Chris Chapman said in a statment. 

SOCOG has a right of veto where corporate sales would conflict with the interests of Olympic sponsors, he said. 

The extension was also applied to the platinum packages, although enough applications had been received to allow the offer to be fully subscribed, to maintain consistency with the gold package offer, Stadium Australian said. 

Chapman said the extension did not impact on the construction of the stadium, which is due for completion in June 1999. The extension also did not disadvantage Stadium Australia Group or the New South Wales Government he said. 

Stadium Australia is trying to raise A$364.4 million to fund the construction of the main stadium for the Sydney 2000 Olympic Games. 

A total of 34,400 gold packages will be sold for A$10,000 each, giving initial subscribers a seat at every stadium session of the Games, including the opening and closing ceremonies and the men's 100-metres sprint final. 

Buyers will enjoy stadium club membership for 30 years after the Games. They will also get 1,000 shares in the stadium company itself, which will be publicly listed on the Australian stock exchange. 

Stadium Australia was also offering 600 platinum packages at A$33,000 each, with two priority seats attached and greater membership privileges over the following 30 years. 

 
"	1	3	1	4	0	-1			1	3.5
444	Australia	1999	29	Political	"SYDNEY, Dec 28 (Reuters) - Three yachts remained on track to shatter the Sydney-Hobart record on Tuesday but a sharp drop in winds left race leader Nokia becalmed as she neared the finishing line. 

Australian maxis Brindabella and Wild Thing were closing on the round-the-world racer. 
 
TD 
 Nokia, a joint Danish and Australian entry, had led by as much as 16 nautical miles on Monday as the three yachts surfed at breath-taking speeds down Australia's east coast and across Bass Strait towards the island state of Tasmania. 

Race officials have estimated at least 20 yachts - a quarter of the starting fleet - were in a position to better the current record of two days 14 hours seven minutes and 10 seconds set by German maxi Wild Thing in 1996. 

The 60-foot (18-metre) Nokia had been expected to arrive in Hobart around 6:00 a.m. (1900 GMT) on Tuesday - 20 hours inside Morning Glory's mark. 

However, she was virtually becalmed when the wind died as she approached the Derwent River near Hobart. 

""Her estimated time of arrival is later this morning and she is only three nautical miles ahead of the others now,"" a race spokeswoman told Reuters. 

""Wild Thing and Brindabella are still chasing and closing the gap."" 

A finish later on Tuesday morning would still see any one of the leaders in the 75-strong fleet break Morning Glory's mark for the 630 nautical mile bluewater classic by up to half a day. 

British superyacht Mari-Cha III crossed the finish line in Hobart early on Tuesday after just over 42 hours at sea but is only a demonstration entry. The yacht is not eligible for any trophies and cannot take the race record. 

RECORD SPEEDS 

The yachts were pushed south at record speeds by north-easterly winds of up to 40 knots throughout Monday despite heavy rain and poor visibility. 

Some of the yachts had been travelling at rates too fast to be recorded by speed calculation tables at the Royal Yacht Club of Tasmania. 

Nokia reached speeds of up to 25 knots and, by late on Monday, had averaged almost 17 knots since the start in Sydney Harbour at 1:00 p.m. (0200 GMT) on Sunday. 

Brindabella and Wild Thing, a 70-feet (21.3 metre) yacht designed specifically for the Sydney-Hobart, were overtaken by Nokia early on Monday. 

The 22.8 metre (75 feet) Brindabella took line honours in 1997 and was second across the line in last year's tragic race, in which six sailors died when the fleet was hit by a ""weather bomb"" in Bass Strait. 

Nokia, skippered jointly by Australian Michael Spies and Stefan Myralf of Denmark, was third in the 1997-98 Whitbread round-the-world race. 

""She's well sailed with a very good combined Danish and Australian crew,"" race spokesman Peter Campbell said. 

Nokia was given permission to compete under Whitbread 60 class rules which allow it to use water ballast worth the weight of 30 crew to stabilise the hi-tech boat in strong winds. 

Competitors observed a minute's silence on Monday in memory of the six sailors killed in last year's race, when winds of up to 80 knots and mountainous seas of 15-20 metres (50-65 feet) hit the fleet. 

Five yachts - Australian entries Not Negotiable, Cruz Control, Chutzpah and Fun and Games and New Zealand's Sow's Ear - have withdrawn from the starting fleet of 80 yachts with varying degrees of gear damage. 

 
"	3	2	2	2	1	0		1	2.5	2
282	Australia	2004	31	Corporate	"SYDNEY, Dec 21 (Reuters) - Australian nickel miner Mincor Resources NL. (MCR.AX) on Tuesday said startup delays at its Mariners nickel mine could defer production of around 500 tonnes of nickel to the next financial year. 

A boom in commodities demand that has pushed metals such as nickel, used to toughen and add shine to stainless steel, to multiyear price highs has encouraged mining companies to tap new ore bodies. 
 
TD 
 ""This December quarter our production will exceed 2,700 tonnes of nickel in concentrate for the first time in two years,"" Managing Director David Moore said at a briefing. 

""We expect to ramp up from that level to over 3,500 tonnes per quarter in fiscal 2006 (ending June 30, 2006),"" he said. 

The main threat to output targets in the current year ending June 30 was the pace of production at its new Mariners lode in Western Australia, Moore said. 

""We expect to see first production in January, but we have not yet inspected the actual ore body,"" Moore said. 

There could be delays in operations if ground conditions were worse than expected, Moore said. 

""Under the worst-case scenario, perhaps some 500 tonnes of nickel metal would be shifted from fiscal 2005 to fiscal 2006,"" he said. 

Mincor currently mines nickel from its Miitel, Wannaway and Redross deposits in the Kambalda region of Western Australia. 

The company sells what it mines to fellow Australian miner WMC Resources Ltd. (WMR.AX), which smelts the ore into finer material. 

Mincor's shares last traded 1.7 percent firmer at A$0.60, outpacing a firmer overall market. Analysts said Minco was benefiting from an almost 8 percent rise in London Metal Exchange-traded nickel prices overnight to $1,460 a tonne. 

($1=A$1.32). 
 
"	1	3	1	4	0	1			1	3.5
163	Australia	1997	37	Corporate	"SYDNEY, Dec 22 (Reuters) - North American gold miner Homestake Mining Co moved into Australia's depressed gold sector on Monday, announcing an agreed takeover offer for Plutonic Mining Ltd in a US$640 million stock deal. 
 
TD 
 Homestake said the deal would boost its 1998 gold production by about 450,000 ounces to about 2.5 million ounces, and make it the third largest North American producer after Newmont Mining Corp and Barrick Gold Corp. 

The deal, which has been approved by the boards of both companies, would also add immediately to earnings per share and cash flow per share, and generate US$20 million in annual savings, it said. 

If approved by shareholders, investors in Plutonic -- which operates five mines in south-west Western Australia -- will receive 34 Homestake shares for every 100 Plutonic shares. 

At Homestake's closing price on Friday, this values Plutonic at $640 million, an 86 percent premium to its current market capitalisation. 

Homestake chief executive officer Jack Thompson said the company had been able to offer an attractive premium because of the steeper decline in Australian, compared with North American, gold stocks following the slump in the gold price. 

Analysts said the deal, the first big international bid in the Australian gold sector since the collapse in the gold price, could signal further takeover interest. 

""If an American miner like Homestake is prepared to pay an 86 percent premium, then it definitely opens up the whole market,"" said Bell Commodities gold analyst Keith Goode. 

Homestake is already a large Australian gold producer through its half-share in the Kalgoorlie Super Pit and Mt Charlotte mines in Western Australia. 

Plutonic offers it a big boost in gold production -- forecast at 600,000 ounces in 1999 at a cash cost of $185 an ounce -- and substantial exploration ground, much of it in the rich Yilgarn zone of Western Australia. 

""Exploration opportunities are the main reasons why we focused on this target,"" Homestake vice president Australia Dick Tastula told a Sydney media briefing. 

""We believe they have wonderful land in Western Australia which can be considered the best land in the world at this point in time,"" he added. 

Plutonic is also developing the rich Centenary deposit, discovered in 1996 next to its existing Darlot mine. 

Homestake said the acquisition would boost its gold reserves by 11 percent to 22.6 million ounces, and its resources by 65 percent to 21.5 million ounces. 

Cumulative gold production would jump 25 percent to 11.5 million ounces in the next five years, while the average cash cost of production would fall four percent to $227 an ounce. 

Plutonic has been one of Australia's leading gold producers, but its share price has tumbled from above A$7.50 ($4.88) in mid-1996 to a recent low of A$1.95 before closing on Friday at A$2.80. 

Trading in the shares was halted on Monday. 

Plutonic's results slumped to a net loss of A$63.06 million in the first half of calendar 1997 following a severe write-down in the carrying value of its mines. 

The deal is expected to close in April 1998, with documentation sent to shareholders by early March. 

 
"	2	3	2	3	0	0		1	2	3
272	Australia	2003	40	Political	"SYDNEY, Nov 20 (Reuters) - An outbreak of trade protectionism through international tariffs or quotas would be a ""severe disappointment"" and disadvantage all countries, Australian Treasurer Peter Costello said on Thursday. 

Costello said he welcomed economic recovery in the United States, but said it would be a shame if concern the U.S. was not adding enough jobs led to trade penalties. 
 
TD 
 The U.S. dollar fell sharply this week, hitting a record low versus the euro , aftera U.S. move to slap quotas on Chinese textile imports fuelled a belief Washington may be willing to use protectionism to support the economy and jobs. 

""If the world should resort to protectionism measures in the face of that (worry over jobs growth), that will be bad for the world and bad for Australia,"" Costello said at a fund-raising lunch. 

""It it is not a good sign that the world might be moving further towards protectionism. What we know about an international protectionist agenda is that it can damage all parties,"" he said. 

U.S. President George W. Bush said in October he wanted to reach a free-trade agreement with Australia by the end of the year. 

Australia wants U.S. tariffs in agriculture cut heavily and removed within five to 10 years. 

The United States has proposed a slower pace to address U.S. farm lobbies' concerns, particularly over protected dairy and sugar industries. Australia says an agreement could boost exports of U.S. manufactured goods. 

Australia needed to reaffirm to its allies and trading partners the importance of an open trading agenda, Costello said on Thursday. 
 
"	1	5	1	4	0	2			1	4.5
51	Australia	1994	54	Corporate	"SYDNEY, Dec 14 (Reuter) - The Commonwealth Bank of Australia said it has lifted its corporate overdraft and loan rates for prime corporate borrowers to 10.75 percent from 9.8 percent. 

The bank said the increase in the prime rate followed today's increase in official cash rates by one percentage point to 7.5 percent. 
 
TD 
 ""Unless fiscal policy is also tightened sufficiently, monetary policy will have to carry more than its fair share of the economic policy adjustment,"" the bank said in a statement. 

The Commonwealth Bank said it would also lift its index rates for overdrafts and loans for commercial borrowers to 11.25 percent from 10.3 percent. 

The increases in the prime rate and other business loans are effective from January 3. 

The bank also raised its variable home loan interest rate to 10.50 percent from 9.55 percent, effective January 3. 

-- Sydney newsroom 61-2 373-1800 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
150	Australia	1991	61	Political	"SYDNEY, Nov 17, Reuter - American hopes of challenging boxing rivals Cuba and the Soviet Union were dealt another blow on Sunday when three of their 12-man squad suffered surprise losses at the world amateur championships. 

Five of the team have now been eliminated in the preliminary bouts while the Cubans have won all 10 of their fights and remain on course to claim more than half the medals on offer. 
 
TD 
 The first American casualty on the championships' third day was Oscar De La Hoya, a strong prospect for a medal in the lightweight (60 kg) division. 

De La Hoya, United States featherweight (50 kg) champion in 1990 and 1991, went down by 17 points to 13 to German Marko Rudolph and blamed poor timing for his loss. 

""My conditioning was good...but my timing was off,"" De La Hoya said. ""But I thought I scored more jabs than the judges gave me credit for."" 

It was De La Hoya's first defeat in international competition since 1987 and was followed by compatriot Sean Fletcher's heavy defeat on points by Thailand's Paulauc Poontharat in the bantamweight division. 

De La Hoya, 18, from Los Angeles, said defeat had not hurt his ambition of winning gold at next year's Olympics. 

""My dream is the Olympic gold and that's still alive, this loss has taken a lot of pressure off me,"" he said. 

Light-middleweight (71 kg) Raul Marquez, a bronze medallist in the welterweight division at the last championships in 1989, made it a trio of American losses when he was outpointed 27 to 17 by Norwegian Ole Klemetsen. 

The only bright spot for the Americans was the form of current world amateur champion light-flyweight (48 kg) Eric Griffen who easily outpointed his South Korean opponent Cho Dong-Bum by 48 to 18. 

Griffen, who missed out on an Olympic medal in Seoul when he was sent home after testing positive for marijuana, remains America's best hope of gold in these championships. 

The formidable Cubans marched on undefeated, their latest victory coming in the light-flyweight division when Rogelio Marcelo beat Domenic Filane of Canada who was disqualified in the second round. 

The Soviet team also added to Saturday's successes with three wins, Eugeny Zykoy looking the most impressive in the welterweight (67 kg) division when he stopped South Korean Chun Jin-Chul in the third round. 
 

"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
258	Australia	2003	66	Political	"SYDNEY, Oct 5 (Reuters) - The safety of those attending services in Bali to remember 202 people killed in bomb blasts there a year ago could not be guaranteed but Australian Prime Minister John Howard said on Sunday he would still go. 

""I can't guarantee it,"" Howard told Nine Network television when asked about security at the October 12 memorials. 
 
TD 
 ""I will be going, my wife will be going. There is a risk but there is also very heavy protection and very heavy security being provided by the Indonesians,"" he said. 

Eighty-eight Australians were among the 202 people killed when two bombs ripped through nightclubs packed with tourists on the Indonesian island last October 12. 

Australia has already warned those planning to travel to Bali for the memorials that more attacks are being planned by Jemaah Islamiah, the al Qaeda-linked Southeast Asian network blamed for the bombings. 

It has cautioned its nationals to defer non-essential travel to Indonesia, including the holiday island of Bali. 

But the Australian government is also paying for up to 500 survivors and family members of victims to go to Bali to commemorate the bombings. 

""I judge that it's important in the nation's grieving process that this memorial service take place, I think it's imperative that the prime minister go,"" Howard said. 

""I know that so many of the the relatives of people who died wish to go and to them it's a very important thing personally and that's why I'm going,"" he said. 

The official memorial service will be held on the morning of October 12 and will end with a rendition by popular singer John Williamson of Australia's unofficial anthem ""Waltzing Matilda"". 

Indonesian President Megawati Sukarnoputri will not attend and will send a representative. She has also said she will be too busy to meet Howard because of a visit by the Algerian president. 
 
"	1	4	2	3	1	1			1.5	3.5
307	Australia	1993	67	Political	"SYDNEY, Nov 24 (Reuter) - American writer Gore Vidal has cancelled his appearance at the annual Adelaide Writers' Week because Australia's immigration laws require him to apply for a visa, organisers said on Wednesday. 

The resident of Italy, calling Australia ""Il paradiso di Keating"" (a play on the name of Prime Minister Paul Keating) said in a letter to the organisers that unless the immigration laws were changed, he would not attend the event. 
 
TD 
 Melbourne's The Age newspaper parodied Vidal in an editorial on Tuesday, saying Australia's laws should not faze ""such a man of the world, especially one from America which has among the most stringent immigration laws of any Western country"". 

Organisers, who had relied on Vidal as a drawing card, said they would replace him with ""an equally important American writer who doesn't think he is more important than the immigration laws."" 

The festival will be held from February 27 to March 4. 

 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
24	Australia	1991	76	Political	"SYDNEY, Nov 12, Reuter - Australia's 500cc motorcycling champion Michael Doohan called on Tuesday for a truce between the two bodies battling for the right to run next year's world championships. 

Doohan, the runner-up behind American Wayne Rainey in the 1991 500cc grand prix series, said the row between the two factions planning rival world series had left him and other riders in limbo. 
 
TD 
 Doohan, 26, who rides for Honda, said leading riders were waiting for the teams to decide whether to compete on the breakaway circuit or one backed by the International Motorcycling Federation (FIM). 

""I feel the two should combine and that would be the best solution,"" Doohan told a news conference to promote his biography, Doohan OK. 

""I think the sport needed a change but it could have been done behind the scenes. This makes the sport look bad,"" Doohan said. 

A merger would provide a good blend of the fresh ideas for promoting the sport that the new group sought and the organisation and stability of the official circuit, Doohan added. 

Doohan's call was made amid an increasingly bitter row between the FIM and the rival International Race Teams' Association (IRTA) backed by Bernie Ecclestone, a key figure in Formula One car racing. 

Ecclestone, in Australia last week, said his group had agreements with the teams and their main sponsors. The top riders were under contract with the teams and would therefore have to ride in the breakaway series, he said. 

The FIM late last month rejected a compromise deal with Ecclestone that would have prevented a split. 

Doohan said the teams were still waiting to see the proposed calendar for the breakaway circuit and details of the promotion and television backing before deciding which way to go. 

The FIM has already released a final calendar for 16 grands prix in 1992 while IRTA said its programme for 500cc, 250cc, 125cc and sidecar events would be released shortly. 

In Australia, the FIM shifted next year's grand prix from Eastern Creek circuit in New South Wales to Phillip Island in Victoria because the New South Wales authorities had signed a five-year deal with Ecclestone's breakaway group. 

The FIM event is scheduled for April 12, the day provisionally set for the breakaway world championship race. 

""I'll be riding wherever the championship is and where my team goes,"" Doohan said. 
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
29	Australia	2008	78	Corporate	"SYDNEY, Dec 11 (Reuters) - Suncorp-Metway , Australia's second-biggest car and home insurer, has priced A$1.1 billion ($728.5 million) in three-year government-guaranteed fixed rate bonds at 140 basis points over swap, a joint lead said on Thursday.

Deutsche Bank and JPMorgan jointly led the offer.

A dozen investors, all from Australia, participated in the offer, the joint lead said. More than half of them were fund managers, with the balance coming from bank buyers.

NAB, the nation's largest lender by assets, is also looking to sell a self-led 5-year fixed and floating rate note issue at 120 basis points over BBSW and swap, two investors said on Thursday. Pricing is expected on Friday.

Australian banks are rushing to raise funds worldwide under a new government guarantee to help them shore up their balance sheets amid the global financial turmoil.

Australia's move follows similar guarantees introduced in other countries.

A total of $7.2 billion in government-guaranteed bonds has been raised by Australian banks this week. For a summary, see [ID:nSYD412195]. ($1=1.510 Australian Dollar) 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
188	Australia	1992	78	Corporate	"SYDNEY, Dec 1, Reuter - Hill Samuel Bank Ltd, a unit of TSB Group Plc, has arranged to sell down its stake in unlisted Australian merchant bank Macquarie Bank Ltd to 15 pct of the voting shares, Macquarie Bank said. 

Hill Samuel now owns 29 pct of Macquarie, 14 pct of which is non-voting. 
 
TD 
 Macquarie said the move was consistent with its undertaking to the Australian government to reduce its stake when Macquarie was granted a banking licence in 1985. 

Macquarie said the share sale would be achieved through a two-part programme. 

Macquarie said it would buy back 7.7 million non-voting shares from Hill Samuel to restructure the capital of the Australian bank. It said a range of Australian institutions have expressed interest in buying the remaining 8.6 million non-voting shares, which convert to voting after purchase. 

""The agreed pricing for both share sale proposals is (Australian) $3.25 per share,"" Macquarie Bank said. 

Macquarie said Hill Samuel plans to keep the remaining 15 pct stake for the foreseeable future, ""subject to price"". 

Macquarie Bank last week reported a net profit of A$26.6 million in the half year to September 30, up 13.6 pct from a year earlier. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
254	Australia	2001	79	Political	"SYDNEY, Nov 10 (Reuters) - Labor leader Kim Beazley conceded defeat in Australia's general election on Saturday, beaten by Prime Minister John Howard's tough crackdown against a rising tide of asylum seekers trying to reach Australia. 

""I'm afraid tonight I have to concede defeat,"" Beazley told party faithful in his home seat in Western Australia state. 
 
TD 
 Beazley also stepped down as leader of his party. ""It is not my intention to remain as leader of the Australian Labor Party."" 

Beazley threw in the towel as vote counting showed a swing of at least two percent to Howard's conservative coalition government, which has won a third consecutive term. 

Howard appeared doomed six months ago but his fortunes turned dramatically in August when he began to turn away boats carrying mainly Middle Eastern and Afghani asylum seekers. 

This, coupled with Australian support for the U.S.-led war on terrorism, overshadowed domestic affairs in the five-week campaign, leaving Beazley's centre-left Labor struggling to get attention for his agenda of jobs, education and health. 

Although the boatpeople policy was condemned as xenophobic and inhumane by religious and human rights groups as well as former politicians from both sides it received overwhelming public support. 
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
20	Australia	2005	81	Political	"SYDNEY, Nov 8 (Reuters) - Australian authorities are investigating the death of two stowaways found on board a bulk fertiliser carrier that sailed from Morocco and docked in Western Australia on Tuesday. 

The two men died while hiding in the cargo hold of the Furness Karumba, which left the Moroccan port of Laayoune on Oct. 7 and docked at Kwinana, south of Perth, police said. 
 
TD 
 The bodies of the men, who have not been identified, were discovered on Oct. 31, when the 12,000-tonne ship was at sea. 

Two other stowaways, who were found alive by the ship's crew, were helped off the Panamanian-registered vessel and taken to hospital, where their conditions are being monitored. 

A police spokesman said the four men were found by chance when crew members were checking the ship's hull for possible damage last week. 

He said the survivors, Moroccans aged 32 and 22, appeared emaciated and were lucky to have survived. 

""Anyone who knows these bulk carriers knows there is not much breathing space in the hold. Given the cargo they were travelling with, they are extremely lucky to be alive,"" he said. 
 
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
349	Australia	2004	81	Political	"SYDNEY, Oct 22 (Reuters) - Beleaguered Australian building products group James Hardie N.V. ousted its chief executive on Friday and named the head of its U.S. operations as interim chief after asbestos litigation blew a hole in its finances. 

The new chief, Louis Gries, is a 13-year Hardie veteran who cut his teeth on the group's U.S. business, which contributed about 80 percent of its nearly $1 billion revenue last year. 
 
TD 
 Following Chief Executive Peter Macdonald out of the door is Chief Financial Officer Peter Shafron. Hardie named Russell Chenu as his succeesor. Both appointments are effective immediately. 

Hardie is at the centre of an asbestos scandal after a public inquiry found a fund it set up was as much as A$1.9 billion ($1.4 billion) below the amount needed to compensate sufferers of mesothelioma, an asbestos disease that chokes its victims. 

Fund managers had expected Gries to succeed Macdonald, who was highly regarded for his skill in building Hardie into the biggest maker of home siding in the United States. 

However, Macdonald's handling of the asbestos shortfall had sparked public outrage, leading to a probe by securities regulators after a special inquiry said Macdonald and Shafron broke the law when they said the fund was sufficient. 

Hardie stock added 1.5 percent in a mildly firmer market to A$6.15, 21 percent below a record high of A$7.81 touched in October before the asbestos fund shortfall woes emerged. 

However it was 24 percent above a three-year low of A$4.95, plumbed two months ago on jitters ahead of the inquiry report. 

Mike Kendall, head of Goldman Sachs J.B. Were's retail broking arm, Were OnCall, said the stock's gains were muted. 

""The market's response is pretty mixed because, while there's relief that there's now someone at the helm, Peter Macdonald was highly regarded for his business acumen."" 

GRIES FINDS FAVOUR 

Gries is seen by investors as a highly capable replacement, and likely to be named to the post for the long haul. 

""The appointment of Louis Gries as interim CEO seems more like a trial period as CEO to us,"" Alex Pikoulas, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said in a report. 

Gries was named president of the company's U.S. building products division about 11 years ago, and has been overseeing Hardie's global operations, sales and marketing for nearly two years as its executive vice president of operations. 

""He is more than qualified for the top job,"" Pikoulas said. 

Macdonald and Shafron stepped aside nearly a month ago after a government-commissioned inquiry said they misled and deceived the public over the size of the fund for several thousand sufferers of asbestos-related disease and bereaved families. 

New South Wales Premier Bob Carr has written to the New York Stock Exchange asking it to look more closely at Hardie. 

Hardie Chairwoman Meredith Hellicar told reporters Macdonald would receive a $6.5 million pay-off, incensing asbestos victims. 

""The only proper thing for him to do, if he gets a golden handshake, is to turn around and put it straight back into the fund,"" said Bernie Banton, vice president of the Asbestos Diseases Foundation of Australia. ($1=A$1.35). 
 
"	1	5	2	5	1	0			1.5	5
466	Australia	1998	85	Political	"SYDNEY, Dec 12 (Reuters) - The re-enactment of an Australian cult ""bikie"" movie on Saturday ended in a 50 motorcycle pile-up which left one rider dead and 14 injured. 

An estimated 15,000 to 20,000 motorcyclists began a ride north from Sydney to Newcastle along the F3 freeway on Saturday morning to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the movie ""Stone"", which featured a ride by thousands of bikies. 
 
TD 
 But around noon several bikes collided with a broken down car, causing the pile-up, a police spokeswoman said. 

Ambulance officials said one rider was dead and eight had serious spinal, head and limb injuries. A fleet of ambulances and two helicopters ferried the 14 injured bikers to several hospitals. 

 
"	2	1	2	1	0	0			2	1
360	Australia	2002	88	Political	"SYDNEY, Nov 14 (Reuters) - Anti-globalisation protesters gathered in Sydney's central business district on Thursday to begin two days of demonstrations as a World Trade Organisation (WTO) mini-summit began in the city. 
 
TD 
 Police have launched Olympic-style security for the November 14-15 meeting of 25 trade ministers, locking down the conference site at Sydney Olympic Park with a ring of steel fencing and concrete barriers. 

Police have banned street marches fearing violence, but protesters gathering on Thursday said they planned to stage a peaceful march through Sydney's business district. 

""We are committed to a peaceful protest but police have refused us march permits. We hope police aren't trying to provoke some confrontation,"" said march organiser Simon Butler. 

""We have the right to free speech and the right to march in the streets to take our message to as many people as possible,"" he said. ""The WTO exists to benefit first world corporations and first world business interest at the expense of the third world."" 

Around 1,000 protesters gathered in Sydney's Martin Place pedestrian mall before the march. 

In a carnival atmosphere, music blared, protesters chanted ""Shut down WTO"", and some danced and meditated. The demonstration also included protests against any U.S.-led war on Iraq and pro-refugee/boatpeople groups. 

Two protesters wearing U.S. President George W. Bush face masks pushed around a mobile missile, while three women stripped naked and splashed red paint on their bodies outside the U.S. Consulate, chanting ""stop the war on women"". 

""Essentially we don't want to see people in Iraq suffer in a war which is not really about terrorism but about oil and power in the Middle East,"" said Ben Stevenson from the Socialist Alternative. 

Only a handful of protesters covered their faces with balaclavas and scarfs, but protest medical and legal teams prepared for the worse. 

""Increasingly police tactics are becoming more paramilitary and it makes us a necessity for modern protests,"" said registered nurse Change Upton. 

""Unfortunately we have to bring out the stretchers."" 

The WTO mini-summit will be the first by global trade ministers since the Doha round of trade talks last year and will aim to reach agreement on freeing up medicines to third world countries to fight HIV-AIDS and tuberculosis. 

It will also aim to smooth the way to the next full WTO conference in Mexico in 2003. 

The meeting will be attended by WTO director-general Supachai Panitchpakdi, U.S. Trade Representative Robert Zoellick and Japan's Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Takeo Hiranuma. 
 
"	2	4	2	3	0	1		1	2	3.5
427	Australia	2001	92	Political	" 
 SYDNEY, Nov 7 (Reuters) - Australia's Labor Opposition said on Wednesday its policies would not have an adverse impact on interest rates, which are at historically low levels. 

Just four days ahead of the federal election, which polls show will go down to the wire, Labor leader Kim Beazley reiterated the Labor Party would not put the federal budget into deficit. 
 
TD 
 ""We now exist in a low interest rate environment globally,"" Beazley told the National Press Club. 

""What we want to pursue in office is a strategy of budget surpluses, of being able to invest in the nation while at the same time maintaining budget surpluses and in that way keeping the pressure off interest rates,"" he said. 

""And we intend of course to keep whipping inflation."" 

Labor has been shoring up its economic credentials through the five-week campaign. 

There are no areas of disagreement between the parties on major economic issues such as keeping the budget in surplus, even though several market economists believe the economic downturn would warrant a return to deficit. 

""We'll run budget surpluses, we won't impact on interest rates,"" Beazley said in answer to a question. 

Earlier on Wednesday, the independent Reserve Bank kept official interest rates steady at a 28-year low of 4.5 percent, declining to become embroiled in politics before the election. 

Though the central bank sets policy independently in line with its inflation target, some government measures such as the stance of fiscal policy can at the margin impact on rates. 
 
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
426	Austria	1995	2	Corporate	"VIENNA, Dec 29 (Reuter) - Austrian construction company Maculan said it won a 1.4 billion schilling order to build a tunnel in Berlin. 

""The securing of this order, completion of which is estimated to take four years, can be seen as evidence of the renewed confidence which the market is again placing in the Maculan Group,"" the company said in a news release. 
 
TD 
 The city centre underground road link will be referred to as the B96 Tiergartentunnel. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
425	Austria	1997	4	Corporate	"VIENNA, Dec 23 (Reuters) - Shares in Austrian national grid operator Verbund powered to a record high of 1,240 schillings on Tuesday amid talk of foreign generators seeking to follow France's EdF into the country's electricity market. 

The southern Styrian parliament on Monday approved a plan to sell 25 percent plus one share of regional utility Energie Steiermark AG (ESTAG) to Electricite de France for 5.6 billion schillings ($448 million). 
 
TD 
 Dealers said EdF or southern German power generators like Bayernwerk AG could be interested in increasing their stakes in the national grid and largest generator in Austria. 

But analysts said they doubted whether foreigners were behind the rally and said regional utilities, which buy about two-thirds of the power Verbund generates, were more likely to be seeking to increase their holdings. 

""Verbund is totally overvalued and this rally can only have to do with EVN and other utilities building up stakes in Verbund in the hope of taking control at some point,"" said Gerhard Auer, an analyst at ICE Securities in London. 

EVN and Vienna city utility Wiener Stadtwerke denied they were buying Verbund shares. Together they account for about 40 percent of Verbund's power. 

""EdF is bad news for Verbund because it will have to compete against a much cheaper generator. What foreign companies will be looking for is distribution or retail outlets rather than generators,"" Auer said. 

Verbund gained 58 schillings or 5.0 percent to 1,200 schillings by 1014 GMT, off its record high of 1,240 posted earlier, but still the most active stock the Vienna bourse's ATX index. 

EVN, which was upgraded by CA IB Investment Bank to ""overweight"" from ""neutral"" on Monday edged 5.1 schillings, or 0.31 percent higher to 1,585 schillings. 

 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
212	Austria	2001	6	Political	"VIENNA, Nov 30 (Reuters) - Foreign ministers from 55 countries, including the United States, Russia and states bordering Afghanistan, aim to agree an action plan on combating terrorism at a two-day summit in Bucharest next week. 

The aftermath of the September 11 attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon is likely to dominate the ministerial meeting of Europe's security and human rights body, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). 
 
TD 
 Diplomats said the meeting starting on Monday would help cement the new strategic alliance between Washington and Moscow, which has thrown its weight behind President George W. Bush's global war on terrorism. 

In a preliminary draft of the final declaration, obtained by Reuters, the ministers ""resolutely condemn all acts of terrorism"". 

""Terrorism, whatever its motivation or origin, has no justification,"" the declaration says. ""No cause can justify the purposeful targeting of innocent people. In the fight against terrorism, there is no neutrality."" 

A proposed ""Bucharest Plan of Action for Combating Terrorism"" will try to put the OSCE's expertise to use. 

The OSCE groups the United States, Canada and all the countries of Europe, as well as former Soviet republics in central Asia. Its work encompasses human rights, security, economic cooperation and the environment. 

The action plan will include a commitment by participating states to work more effectively to prevent terrorists' movement and ensure ""the timely detention and prosecution or extradition of persons charged with terrorist acts"". 

Unlike last year's foreign ministers' meeting, which ended without a concluding declaration after Russia objected to language on the Chechnya conflict, this year's gathering is expected to produce a strong consensus. 

""We are seeing a strong will being asserted by Russia, the European Union and the United States to lead the consensus in a stronger more forceful way,"" a Western diplomat said. 

""Perhaps the most interesting aspect is the degree to which these three are all singing from the same song sheet."" 

U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell is expected to hold bilateral meetings in Bucharest with Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov and Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres. 

Israel is not an OSCE member but has a formal relationship with the organisation through its Mediterranean cooperation programme. 
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
219	Austria	2001	10	Corporate	"VIENNA, Dec 14 (Reuters) - Vienna International Airport operator Flughafen Wien said on Friday it had slashed landing fees by up to 20 percent to attract more long-haul traffic and also to corner the eastern European market. 

Flughafen said landing fees for long-haul flights over 125 tonnes such as Boeing 747s or Airbus A340s had been cut by 20 percent while all other aircraft would be charged three percent less. The new tariff has been effective since November 1. 
 
TD 
 ""This is to give airlines an added incentive to include Vienna in their long-haul schedules and thereby expand our offering,"" Chief Executive Herbert Kaufmann said in a statement. 

The operator will also introduce a new tariff with savings of some 27 percent for carriers flying to regional airports within a 600 km radius of Vienna, strengthening the hub's role as a gateway to European Union candidate countries to the east. 

Shares in the firm, which have lost almost 25 percent of their value so far this year, closed flat in Vienna on Thursday at 30.30 euros. 
 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
300	Austria	1991	10	Political	"VIENNA, Dec 19, Reuter - President Kurt Waldheim requested on Thursday that Austria's coalition government speak with one voice on recognising the independence of the Yugoslav breakaway republics of Croatia and Slovenia. The Austrian news agency APA quoted Waldheim as telling Chancellor Franz Vranitzky, a social democrat, and Foreign Minister Alois Mock, a conservative, that unity was particularly important at this point. 

Mock on Tuesday told parliament that Austria would recognise the two breakaway Yugoslav republics on January 15 -- the date set by the European Community for recognition if the two states meet certain criteria. 
 
TD 
 But Vranitzky later said Austria would recognise the republics when a group of other states did so and would not necessarily follow the timing of the EC, of which it is not yet a member. 

Austrian recognition might or might not come on January 15, the chancellor said. 

Germany is expected to announce on Thursday its decision to recognise Croatia and Slovenia with effect from January 15. 
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
211	Austria	2006	15	Political	"VIENNA, Dec 6 (Reuters) - A bogus priest and his girlfriend tricked an Austrian pensioner out of $200 after promising him a naked bathtub session with the woman. 

""The bogus priest and his girlfriend ran a bath for the pensioner, who undressed and got in straight away,"" a police spokeswoman in the northern Austrian town of Linz said on Wednesday. 
 
TD 
 The pensioner waited in the tub for about 10 minutes, but when he heard cupboards being opened and closed in the living room, he emerged from the bathroom and chased the pair out of his flat, she said. 

""The credulous 65-year-old pensioner was waiting in vain in the bathtub ... while the suspect stole about 150 euros ($200) in cash from his living room,"" a police statement said. 

The smooth-talking priest, who is in custody, and his 42-year-old girlfriend cheated four other Linz residents out of various sums. 

The 40-year-old priest, who claimed to have left holy orders for the sake of his girlfriend, also stole 140 euros ($210) from a flower donations collecting box in a church, police said. His total haul was 720 euros ($1,080).
 
"	4	4	4	4	0	0			4	4
206	Austria	2000	16	Corporate	"VIENNA, Nov 29 (Reuters) - Shares in Austria Tabak rallied to a year high in early Vienna trade on Wednesday on rekindled speculation of a bidding war for the state's 41.1 percent stake in the tobacco manufacturer and wholesaler. 

By 0947 GMT in a marginally firm market, the shares stood 6.32 percent higher at 58 euros and were the most actively traded on volume of over 180,000 shares. 
 
TD 
 The stock has risen more than 20 percent since the beginning of the year against the blue-chip ATX index's eight percent fall. 

Traders said fresh demand was ignited by a report in a German magazine that German tobacco group Reemtsma was offering 1.35 billion marks ($591.3 million) for the Austrian state's stake. 

""The stock's moving massively on these rumours - the bourse lives from such speculation and there's probably a hint of truth in it somewhere,"" said one trader in Vienna. State holding company OeIAG said it had not received such an offer and that the report in Focus Money was ""utter nonsense"". 

""It may be that that is what they want to offer, but we have to follow an open and transparent procedure according to EU criteria....and have to remain open to everyone who comes along,"" OeIAG spokesman Lutz Sperlich told Reuters. 

He said talk of a sale was premature as the state was in the midst of a beauty contest to find an investment bank to advise it on the sale, and had until 2003 to part with its holding in the profitable manufacturer and wholesaler of tobacco products. 

Reemtsma was not immediately available for comment. 
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
340	Austria	2008	17	Political	"VIENNA, Nov 28 (Reuters) - Austria's cooperative Volksbank AG on Friday asked the Austrian government to underwrite all of its planned 1 billion euro ($1.3 billion) capital increase and turn to shareholders for support only in a second step. The shareholders should at a later point be able to buy back the participation capital it plans to issue to boost its capital ratios from the government and swap it into common shares, Volksbank said in a statement.

Volksbank, whose Kommunalkredit [KKAT.UL] unit was nationalised earlier this month after running into a liquidity squeeze, had said at the time that both shareholders and government would buy some of the participation capital.
 
TD 
 Regional cooperative Volksbanken own 58 percent of Volksbank AG. German cooperative bank DZ Bank owns 25 percent, a Munich Re unit 10 percent and Austria's Raiffeisen Zentralbank (RZB) 6 percent.

Volksbank will have a net loss in full-year 2008 because it has to write off Kommunalkredit and make impairments on Lehman Brothers and Icelandic debt exposures, the bank said.

Austria's banking stability package has earmarked 15 billion euros for capital injections. Apart from Volksbank, Erste Group Bank , RZB and Hypo Group Alpe Adria have also said they may tap this fund. (Reporting by Boris Groendahl; Editing by Jon Loades-Carter)
 
"	1	1	1	2	0	1			1	1.5
311	Austria	2003	19	Corporate	"VIENNA, Dec 1 (Reuters) - Six European mobile phone providers active in Austria are suing the Austrian government for the retun of millions of euros in taxes on network licences that they say could create a precedent for other EU countries. 

The companies are demanding the Vienna government return 140 million euros in what they say was value-added tax that should have been included in the 832 million euros they paid in total for their individual UMTS network licenses in November 2000. 
 
TD 
 The government has argued telecom licenses are exempt from value-added tax and that none were levied at the time, meaning it gets to keep the entire payment. 

""We have coordinated the legal action in Austria (among the provders). This case could also set a precedence for other countries in the EU,"" Telekom Austria (TELA.VI) spokeswoman Ursula Nowotny told Reuters. 

Nowotny said the lawsuits were filed in the past week in Austrian courts by the six companies, which include Telekom Austria's Mobilkom arm as well as T-Mobile Austria (DTEGn.DE), Hutchison, 3G (TEM.MC), Connect Austria and tele.ring. 

The lawsuits argue that Austrian tax code requires the government to levy 20 percent value added tax (VAT), and that this levy must have been include in the overall licence price. 

The tax code also provides deductions for that same VAT, meaning it should be repaid, the companies say. 

The telecommunications regulator agency RTR, which handled the sale of the network rights, told Reuters it had used legal guidelines from the finance ministry saying the telecoms licences were not subject to VAT. 

The newspaper Financial Times Deutschland quoted lawyers for the companies as saying they expected the case to move from Austrian courts to the Europan Court, which could create a precedent requiring other EU countries to repay taxes on network licenses.
 
"	2	1	2	1	0	0			2	1
354	Austria	1994	29	Corporate	"VIENNA, Dec 6 (Reuter) - Austria's Radex group, the world's leading fireproof materials producer, said on Tuesday that its planned merger and later acquisition of Germany's Didier Werke will significantly boost the profitability of both companies. 

Radex chief executive Helmut Longin said the merger, which he expects cartel authorities to approve within the next three to four months, will raise the efficiency of both companies and help reverse the unsatisfactory profits of the last two years. 
 
TD 
 Longin said that Radex-Heraklith would acquire a 25.5 percent stake in Didier, a subsidiary of Viag AG, in exchange for Viag's taking an 18 percent stake in Radex. 

Radex would acquire a majority holding in Didier when it takes a second 25.5 percent stake in 1987 for a fixed but unspecified cash payment, Longin said. 

In Munich, Viag said it was making a gradual withdrawal from Didier, in which it now holds a 51 percent stake. 

Radex officials said the two companies, which when merged will have a combined turnover of about 22 billion schillings ($2 billion) and a workforce of 12,000 employees worldwide, will remain independent. 

Both companies have had operating losses in recent years due to enormous overcapacity in world markets. 

""The two main aims are to make sure market share isn't lost and secondly, to increase profits through joint cost-cutting measures,"" Longin said. 

The companies expect to benefit from considerable synergy effects in development, production and in acquiring raw materials. 

Radex officials said that especially in European markets the companies could reduce costs, but declined to be any more specific about the cost-cutting potential of the merger. 

Radex said it did not expect any difficulties with cartel authorities because, even though it had a market-leading position in many areas, there were hundreds of competitors and its own market share did not exceed 11 percent in any single sector. 

""There can be no talk whatsoever of market domination,"" said Friedrich Nemec, chief executive of Veitsch-Radex, the holding company's fireproofing unit. 

If cartel authorities approve the merger in early 1995, Radex plans to make it retroactive to January 1. 

Radex officials said both firms had long been discussing such a move, but that an agreement on terms was not reached until Monday evening. 

 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
71	Austria	1994	46	Corporate	"VIENNA, Dec 1 (Reuter) - Austrian Finance Minister Ferdinand Lacina proposed introducing taxes on bonus payments paid to most Austrian workers, a plan immediately criticised by other government officials and trade unions. 

Lacina, a member of the Social Democrats (SPOe) in a grand coalition with the conservative People's Party (OeVP), said that he ""may envision"" taxing the bonus payments of workers with incomes above 40,000 or 50,000 schillings per month. 
 
TD 
 Most Austrian workers receive an additional 13th and 14th month salary during the summer and Christmas holidays that is not subject to most taxes. 

Austrian Chancellor and SPOe leader Franz Vranitzky had told parliament on Wednesday that there was no need for tax increases. The People's Party, junior partners in the coalition government, rejected Lacina's proposal. 

""It's out of the question,"" said Ingrid Korosec, chairman of the OeVP. She said the coalition agreement was crystal clear that there would be no tax increases in the next four year legislative period. -- Erik Kirschbaum, Vienna Newsroom, 43-1-53112-25 

(c) Reuters Limited 1994 
 
"	3	5	3	5	0	0		1	3	5
224	Austria	2003	56	Political	"VIENNA, Nov 24 (Reuters) - France, Germany and Britain on Monday circulated a third draft of a U.N. nuclear resolution condemning Iran's 18-year concealment of parts of its atomic programme, but diplomats said it was too weak for Washington. 

The U.N. International Atomic Energy Agency's (IAEA) 35-member Board of Governors on Friday adjourned talks until Wednesday, to give diplomats a chance to revise a resolution drafted by the three European states condemning Iran's concealment of atomic research which could be arms-related. 
 
TD 
 The new draft, obtained in full by Reuters, calls for IAEA's governing board to ""meet immediately to consider all options at its disposal"" if the IAEA uncovers any further violations of Tehran's international non-proliferation obligations. 

However, Western diplomats told Reuters U.S. negotiators still want a much stronger ""trigger clause"" that warns Iran clearly that if it has any more atomic secrets it will be reported to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions. 

The wording of this clause is one of the main sticking points in the negotiations, diplomats said. 

The draft also ""strongly deplores Iran's past failures and breaches of its obligation to comply with ... its Safeguards Agreement"" under the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT). It notes ""with the gravest concern that Iran enriched urnaium and separated plutonium in undeclared facilities, in the absence of IAEA safeguards"". 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
80	Austria	1999	62	Political	"VIENNA, Nov 4 (Reuters) - Alpine skiers Toni Sailer and Annemarie Moser-Proell were voted Austrian sportsman and women of the century by the country's sports journalists on Thursday. 

Two other Alpine skiers, double world and Olympic champion Hermann Maier and overall World Cup champion Alexandra Meissnitzer, were elected Austrian sportsman and woman of the year for the second consecutive time. 
 
TD 
 Sailer, a triple Olympic champion at the 1956 Olympics in Cortina D'Ampezzo, was just ahead of Austria's three-times Formula One world champion Niki Lauda and former tennis world number one Thomas Muster in the poll 

Moser-Proell is the century's most successful female World Cup Alpine skier with a record six overall titles and 62 race wins. She also had five world championship titles and took downhill gold at the 1980 Lake Placid Olympics. 

Maier, who in 1998 became the first Austrian in 20 years to clinch the men's overall World Cup, won the yearly vote ahead of cross-country skier Alois Stadlober and table tennis bronze medallist Werner Schlager. 

Meissnitzer, a double world champion, was in front of Barbara Schett - Austria's first woman tennis player to reach the top 10 - and skiing team mate and downhill world champion Renate Goetschl. 

The cross-country skiing relay team, who clinched Austria's first gold medal in the sport at the Ramsau world championships in February, were awarded the country's team of the year prize. 

 
"	5	5	5	5	0	0			5	5
55	Austria	1993	73	Political	"VIENNA, Oct 13 (Reuter) - North Korea reiterated on Wednesday that only direct negotiations with the United States could solve a dispute over international inspection of its nuclear sites. 

But it said the talks would have to concentrate on Washington's military presence and nuclear arsenal in South Korea. 
 
TD 
 Kim Gwang Sop, North Korea's ambassador to Austria, told a news conference in Vienna that Pyongyang would no longer discuss the issue of nuclear inspections with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). 

""The issue can only be solved in direct talks between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the United States,"" Kim said. ""The nuclear issue has political, military as well as technical aspects. 

""If there is progress in these talks, then other issues can be solved immediately."" 

Pyongyang is under heavy international pressure to allow international inspection of its nuclear sites at Yongbyon, north of the capital, which the West suspects are part of a secret nuclear arms programme. 

In March, North Korea announced it would withdraw from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) rather than allow inspection, but delayed its move pending talks with Washington. 

Kim said a third round of talks between Pyongyang and Washington had not yet been fixed, but denied that the negotiations had been broken off. 

""We are asking the U.S. to talk and negotiate,"" Kim said. ""We are trying to do our bit to solve the issue. 

""At this time there is no information that the talks have been broken off."" 

Kim repeated Pyongyang's allegations made on Tuesday that the IAEA had disqualified itself as a negotiating partner on nuclear inspections because of its biased attitude towards North Korea. 

Kim again accused the IAEA of presenting a forged message from U.N. Secrtetary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali to the agency's general conference with the aim of exerting pressure on Pyongyang. 

The U.N. on Tuesday rejected the claim as nonsense and said the statement was legitimate. 

 
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
316	Austria	2005	76	Corporate	"VIENNA, Feb 22 (Reuters) - Austria's largest electric utility, Verbund AG (VERB.VI), will nearly double capacity at its Kaprun power plant group to 985 megawatts (MW) by adding a pumped storage plant. 

Verbund said work on the new 480-MW plant, with a price tag of about 365 million euros ($481.1 million), would start in 2006 and be completed in 2011. It will add to current hydro power capacity at Kaprun of 505 megawatts. 
 
TD 
 The new plant, dubbed Limberg II, is aimed at helping cover a rising need for balancing energy flows in European markets in order to safeguard network operations, Verbund said. 

The expansion of decentralised alternative energy generation, for example wind power from turbines in Austria's neighbouring German market, makes it increasingly necessary to iron out short-term fluctuations on the grids. 

Central European grids in Austria, Switzerland and Germany have close links, making their transmission areas one large power trading and scheduling zone. 

A press release issued by Verbund subsidiary Autrian Hydro power (AHP) said that near-blackouts early this year in Austria as well as power outages in Italy and the U.S. in recent years had demonstrated the need to boost short-term supply. 

Pumped storage plants can generate large amounts of electricity in minutes by exploiting the power of water dropping down from higher basins into lower ones. 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
494	Austria	1997	77	Corporate	"VIENNA, Nov 18 (Reuters) - Austria's coalition government agreed on Tuesday to prepare Vienna's Dorotheum auction house for privatisation in 1998, a finance ministry spokesman said. 

The government's 100 percent stake in the Dorotheum, one of the world's oldest auction houses, would be transferred to the state holding company OeIAG with effect from January 1, the official said. 
 
TD 
 Finance Minister Rudolf Edlinger has said he would like to see the state's holding reduced to 25 percent. The sale is likely to take the form of a flotation on the Vienna stock exchange. 

OeIAG has netted 47 billion schillings ($3.9 billion) in revenue for the government from a wave of privatisations over the last 10 years. 

Its latest success was the massively oversubscribed flotation of 44 percent of tobacco maker and wholesaler Austria Tabak. 

According to budget estimates released earlier this year, privatisation income in 1998 is expected to reach a modest three billion schillings ($250 million). 

Under the government's original plan, the state's holdings in Austrian Airlines, Vienna airport operator Flughafen Wien and the country's regional airports in Innsbruck, Salzburg, Klagenfurt, Linz and Graz were to have been transferred along with the Dorotheum to OeIAG. 

But the junior coalition partner, the conservative People's Party, last week blocked the transfers because of resistance from the provincial governments who were concerned the regional airports would be sold off. 

The government -- which owns between 40 and 60 percent of the five airports -- stressed it was simply interested in the stakes being properly managed. 

 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
376	Austria	1992	78	Corporate	"VIENNA, Nov 4, Reuter - Shares in soon-to-be-privatised Voest-Alpine Eisenbahnsysteme AG (VAE), a state-owned railway points maker, should cost no more than 1,000 schillings apiece, sources at privatisation lead-manager Bank Austria said. 

They said the issue would be priced along the lines of the bank's last privatisation issue -- Flughafen Wien AG -- 27 pct of which was successfully sold off earlier this year. 
 
TD 
 ""We brought our last share flotation to the market with a P/E ratio of between 12 and 14, and will orientate the VAE issue price towards that level,"" one Bank Austria source said. 

VAE executives said they expected earnings per share this year to total 71 schillings, based on the OVFA accounting standard, and 74 schillings in 1993. 

Based on this year's earnings outlook the issue price should fall between 852 and 994 schillings. 

Bank Austria deputy chief executive Gerhard Randa said the price/earnings ratio of the VAE issue should be below the Vienna market average of 17. Its dividend yield should be between 3.5-4.0 pct from 1993, depending on the issue price. 

""I am optimistic that the shares will show an outstanding performance,"" Randa told the presentation. 

The government is selling off 588,000 shares in VAE, which it owns through the Austrian Industries holding structure. The selloff will reduce its holding to 51 pct of VAE capital. 

Some 200,000 of the new shares being issued will go towards raising VAE's nominal equity capital to 120 million schillings from 100 million currently. 

A majority of shares in VAE will be placed in Austria, with around 40 pct being placed internationally by S.G. Warburg. 

VAE chief executive Edmund Auli said the share issue would also be sweetened by a two pct bonus based on the issue price for the year 1992. 

That means the dividend for this year will probably be increased to between 17 and 20 pct from last year's 16 pct of share capital. 

Finance director Mohamed Kaddoura said that VAE would make an OVFA profit of 89 million schillings in 1993 after an expected 84.7 million schillings this year. 

Consolidated turnover is expected to rise to 1.49 billion schillings in 1993 from 1.43 billion schillings this year. 

VAE is a leading company in its sector and has a European market share of around 30 pct. Some 28 pct of turnover is generated by its four foreign subsidiaries. 

Two further subsidiaries, one in Switzerland and one in Portugal, are expected to be added by the end of the year. 

VAE's biggest competitor is the French firm Cogifer, which in 1991 more than doubled profits to 26.3 million francs on turnover up 7.7 pct to 1.26 billion francs. 

Last year's seven franc dividend gives a yield, based on Cogifer's current share price of 340 francs, of 2.06 pct -- roughly half the projected payout at VAE for next year. 

Final pricing of the share will be made on November 23, and the share issue will be offered to the public from November 30 to December 4. 

 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
249	Austria	1999	83	Political	"VIENNA, Oct 17 (Reuters) - Greg Rusedski bounced back from two sets down and saved one match-point to beat Germany's Nicolas Kiefer in a dramatic 6-7 2-6 6-3 7-5 6-4 and win his first ATP tournament of the year in the CA Trophy on Sunday. 

Rusedski, the first Briton to win this indoor tournament, had been a losing finalist here in 1997 to Goran Ivanisevic after being two sets up. 
 
TD 
 ""I told myself that if Ivanisevic can do it to me then I can do it to someone else,"" said Rusedski, who is expected to move up one place to sixth in the world rankings. 

Last week in Basle, Rusedski complained Kiefer had employed ""distracting and unsportsmanlike tactics"" to oust him from the quarter-finals. 

""He behaved really well today,"" Rusedski, winner of the $1.3 million Grand Slam Cup two weeks ago, said. 

""But sometimes you have to play a bit ugly against him to get the win because he is a very talented player. 

""In the second set I was more mentally than physically exhausted. There I was dominating in all areas but just not getting the break."" 

Kiefer, who beat world number two Yevgeny Kafelnikov and number eight Richard Krajicek en route to his fifth final in 1999, said: 

""I had my chances but I didn't take them. In general, the disappointment is not that great as I beat two top players this week."" 

Kiefer fought off six break-points to take the opening set to a tie-break, which he won 7-5, and achieved two breaks of his own in the second to go two sets up. 

""I wasn't happy with some of the calls in the first set and I let it bother me in the second,"" Rusedski said. ""But in the third I told myself to forget it and stay focused."" 

In the third set, a double fault by Kiefer allowed Rusedski to convert his 13th break-point for a 3-1 lead and go on to take the set. 

Kiefer made several errors, including two double faults in the fourth game, to hand Kiefer a 3-1 lead. 

At 5-4 down, Rusedski fought off a match-point as Kiefer netted after a thundering second serve by the Briton. Rusedski fired an ace and took the game to make it 5-5 before breaking the German's service to go 6-5 in front. 

Kiefer looked wobbly at the net. He lost the next game and the set and then dropped his service at the start of the fifth set. 

Rusedski, who served more consistently than Kiefer and looked the fresher at the end of a match lasting three hours and 41 minutes, broke again for 5-2. 

Although the German managed to break back, Rusedski was not to be denied. The 26-year-old Briton committed a double fault on his first match-point but then hammered down his 31st ace of the match to secure victory in Vienna's Stadthalle. 

 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
339	Austria	1996	88	Political	"VIENNA, Nov 22 (Reuter) - Austria criticised the United States on Friday for vetoing United Nations Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali's re-election for a second term. 

State secretary Benita Ferrero-Waldner, number two at the Foreign Ministry, defended Boutros-Ghali's record during his five years in office and dismissed criticism that he had failed to carry out necessary reforms. 
 
TD 
 ""One has to ask whether it is fitting that a country like the United States, that has such large debts with the United Nations, should adopt such an extreme position,"" Ferrero-Waldner told Die Presse newspaper in an interview published on Friday. 

The United States this week voted against a new five-year term for Boutros-Ghali. The other 14 members of the Security Council voted for him. 

Ferrero-Waldner also expressed regret at German plans to pull out of the United Nations industrial development agency, UNIDO. She said she would contact Bonn to try to avert the threat. ""This is unfortunate for Austria, where UNIDO has its headquarters,"" she said
 
"	4	4	4	4	4	0	1		4	4
498	Austria	1990	90	Political	"VIENNA, Oct 17, Reuter - Austria's two main political parties began talks on Wednesday on forming a new coalition government following general elections 10 days ago. 

Chancellor Franz Vranitzky's Socialists, who emerged as the biggest party with 43 per cent of the vote, have invited their struggling coalition partners, the conservative People's Party, to work with them again in a left-right government. 
 
TD 
 The People's Party (OeVP) suffered the worst election result in their history in the October 7 polls, losing 17 seats and taking only 32 per cent of votes. 

Political commentators say the OeVP will have little choice but to join a new coalition with the Socialists. 

An OeVP coalition with the right-wing Freedom Party, which nearly doubled its seats to 33, would have a barely workable three-seat majority. 

Going into opposition and forcing the Socialists to form a minority government would quickly lead to new elections, which would be likely to hasten the OeVP's decline. 

The Socialists have ruled out any coalition with the Freedom Party, whose charismatic leader Joerg Haider is seen by many as too right-wing. 
 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
128	Austria	1992	96	Corporate	"VIENNA, Oct 14, Reuter - Austria's Bank fuer Oberoesterreich und Salzburg AG (Oberbank) should boost its partial operating profit this year to 425 million schillings from 385 million in 1991, chief executive Herman Bell said. 

Bell told a news conference that operating profits rose 6.3 pct from January to September. He said he expected to be able to pay an unchanged dividend of 13 pct this year, and that the bank's total assets would climb to 63 billion schillings from last year's 60 billion. 
 
TD 
 Oberbank will remain a predominantly regional bank, but is considering opening a branch in Ceske Budejovice, Bell said. 

 
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
295	Austria	2003	97	Corporate	"VIENNA, May 2 (Reuters) - The Vienna Stock Exchange said on Friday that trading in Austrian beverage maker BBAG (OBRV.VI) and its beer unit Brau Union (BRAV.VI) was suspended after Dutch brewing giant Heineken (HEIN.AS) offered to take over BBAG. 

Trading would resume at 0830 GMT, the bourse said. This is 30 minutes after a joint news conference with Heineken and BBAG is set to begin. 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
293	Austria	2002	99	Political	"VIENNA, Oct 14 (Reuters) - U.N. weapons inspectors, preparing to return to Iraq after a four-year break, are insisting on safety guarantees in no-fly zones enforced by U.S. and British warplanes, officials said on Monday. 

Under threat of a military attack led by the United States, Iraq has agreed to the return of weapons inspectors but says it cannot guarantee their safety in no-fly zones over the north and south of the country. 
 
TD 
 Iraq does not recognise the zones, where U.S. and British warplanes have stepped up raids in recent weeks. The zones were set up after the 1991 Gulf war in which U.S.-led forces drove Iraqi invasion troops out of Kuwait. 

""What we're asking for is security of our own aircraft, when (U.N. experts) are flying somewhere to do inspections, flying in and out of the country, whether for rotations or medical evacuations or this kind of thing,"" a U.N. source told Reuters. 

Iraq has said the inspectors, whose job is to destroy weapons of mass destruction that the United States alleges Baghdad is developing, could return on October 19. But it is doubtful they would go to Baghdad before the U.N. Security Council adopts a new resolution setting guidelines for their work, currently the subject of heated debate. 

The inspectors' first concern is obtaining a safety pledge from Iraq, but U.N. officials have said they would seek similar pledges from the U.S. and Britain. The no-fly zones protect Kurds in the north and Shi'ite Muslims in the south of Iraq. 

""They (Iraq) are saying that when a piece of airspace turns into a combat zone, anything can happen and you shouldn't be there. We're not going to deliberately fire at you, but in the heat of battle we just don't know what can happen,"" he said. 

On October 8, chief U.N. weapons inspector Hans Blix and head of the U.N.'s International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Mohamed ElBaradei sent a letter to Iraq demanding it take ""all steps within its control"" to ensure the safety of U.N. aircraft. 

Baghdad responded in an October 10 letter from Iraqi presidential adviser General Amir al-Saadi, repeating its view that the no-fly zones were illegal and only if they were abolished could the Iraqis guarantee the U.N. teams' safety. 

Diplomats said a subsequent Iraqi letter fell short of U.N. disarmament officials' requirements. 

The U.N. source said that it was not only the Iraqis who represented a threat to the lives of weapons inspectors. British and U.S. forces, who would not be informed ahead of time about the location of surprise inspections, could also be a danger. 

""I'd be curious as to whether even the U.S. could offer that kind of assurance,"" the U.N. official said. 

Nor would U.N. inspectors in the air be the only ones in danger in the no-fly zones. The lives of any U.N. staff caught on the ground during an exchange of fire between the Iraqis and U.S. and British forces could also be at serious risk. 
 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
262	Belgium	2003	5	Political	"BRUSSELS, Dec 23 (Reuters) - Belgium said on Tuesday it was confident EU member states would reach an agreement by the end of next year on a constitution to underpin an enlarged Europe after a failed summit two weeks ago. 

""I also fear that the Union will not reach a deal on a constitutional treaty during the Irish EU presidency,"" Belgian secretary of state for European affairs Jacques Simonet told the Belgian daily Metro in an interview. 
 
TD 
 ""But I'm willing to bet that we will all - at the end of 2004, during the Dutch presidency - back a text which will be close to the Convention."" 

Belgium wants the final draft of the constitution to be as close as possible to a text drafted by a 105-member Convention in June. 

Simonet also said key members of the EU might seek closer integration among themselves if there was no progress. 

""At this stage, it is certainly not the objective of the government. But if it is clear that if there is no progress with 25 member states, then it will go that way,"" he added. 

""That will then likely take place with a core group which will chiefly consist of the founding members of the Union. I'm thinking of closer cooperation in terms of social and tax issues, but also on defence."" 

Diplomats said earlier that tentative plans for France, Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg and some other pro-integration countries to launch an initiative declaring themselves a ""pioneer group"" had been put on ice for now. 
 
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
371	Belgium	2009	5	Corporate	"BRUSSELS, Dec 21 (Reuters) - Belgian electronics company IPTE announced the planned sale of its loss-making automation division on Monday.

IPTE said in a statement it would sell the business, which sets up and tests systems for printed circuit boards, to two key shareholders, including company founder Huub Baren.
 
TD 
 The sale, subject to shareholder approval in the first quarter of 2010, would be for an initial 2 million euros ($2.9 million). It would also include an amount based on the division's profits until December 2012. ($1=.6978 euros) (Reporting by Philip Blenkinsop)
 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
451	Belgium	2005	6	Corporate	" BRUSSELS, Dec 27 (Reuters) - InBev Chairman Pierre Jean Everaert said on Tuesday the Belgian-Brazilian brewing giant's new chief executive, Carlos Brito, will apply his experience in direct selling of beer in Brazil to the rest of the group to boost sales. 

Brito has been extremely aggressive in picking up market share during his term as chief executive of Ambev, the Brazilian brewer that merged with Belgium's Interbrew to create InBev, Everaert told reporters on a conference call. 
 
TD 
 ""He has quite a bit of experience in logistics and in direct sales force as opposed to going through wholesale,"" Everaert said. 

InBev is still interested in more acquisitions if they reinforce markets, Everaert said. 
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
442	Belgium	1997	8	Political	"BRUSSELS, Dec 30 (Reuters) - A Belgian court said on Tuesday it did not have the power to overrule a ban on tobacco advertising which threatens to scupper the Belgian Formula One motor racing Grand Prix. 

The pronouncement came just before the December 31 deadline that Formula One chief Bernie Ecclestone had given organisers to find a way around the ban. 
 
TD 
 ""We put an enormous effort into fighting this and I hope the international organisers will take that into consideration,"" race director Andre Maes told Belgian television. 

The law, which bans all tobacco advertising and sponsorship from January 1, 1999, was challenged by backers of the race at Spa-Francorchamps -- one of the highlights of the racing calendar -- including the local government, the organisers and local retailers. 

Despite the one-year delay, Ecclestone has told the Belgian organisers that they will lose their place on the calendar with immediate effect unless there is a prospect of the ban being overturned. The race is scheduled for August 30. 

The organisers argued in court that the ban ran contrary to the free movement of goods and services within the European Union and was in breach of human rights. 

After judge Claude Viellevoye at the court in Verviers ruled he could not suspend the government ban, lawyer Luc Mission and two other legal representatives for restaurant and cafe holders' associations and tourist boards appeared likely to appeal. 

""We maybe asked for a bit too much. It didn't work, so we will try to think of something else,"" Mission said. 

The plaintiffs may now take the case to the Cour d'Arbitrage, Belgium's highest court on legal and administrative matters, to challenge the ban on constitutional grounds, or to the European Court of Justice to determine whether it contravenes EU law. 

""I was a bit disappointed, but we have lost a battle and not a war,"" said Didier Matay, a lawyer representing the race organisers. ""We've already decided amonst ourselves how we are going to proceed."" He gave no details. 

A lifting of the Belgian law would mean postponing the ban on sponsorship until 2006 in line with recent, more lenient, EU legislation. The EU ruling will phase out most tobacco advertising within three years but would give tobacco sponsorship of events such as F1 until 2006. 

Other events such as the Francorchamps 24-hour race are also under threat from the ban. 
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
326	Belgium	1992	9	Corporate	"BRUSSELS, Dec 22, Reuter - Belgian polyurethane foam producer Recticel SA said its parent company, Ste Generale de Belgique SA (SGB), raised its stake in the company to 70.4 pct after a share issue which ended last Thursday. 

SGB, Belgium's leading holding company, held a stake of 58.5 pct in Recticel before the 3.17 billion franc capital boost. 
 
TD 
 Recticel said in a statement the issue was subscribed for 90 pct. It added that out of the 10,615,938 new shares taken up, 10,114,437 were subscribed for by SGB. 

Recticel also said the unexercised preference rights to subscribe to the new shares at 270 francs per share on the basis of three new shares for four subscription rights, will be sold as scrips on December 29. 

The share issue was guaranteed 97 pct by SGB and three pct by Belgian holding company Financiere Lecocq. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
396	Belgium	1994	11	Political	"BRUSSELS, Dec 22 (Reuter) - Belgium urged Burundi on Thursday to resolve its crisis following violence in part of the capital Bujumbura this week in which nearly 30 have died. 

Belgian Foreign Minister Frank Vandenboucke urged the Burundi authorities to solve the political crisis rapidly in a spirit of national reconciliation, the Foreign Ministry said in a statement. Burundi is a former protectorate of Belgium. 
 
TD 
 Belgium's ambassador to Burundi Marc Van Craen was told by the Defence Minister that a curfew was having the desired effect, the statement said. 

The government announced a night curfew to try to curb violence centred in Bujumbura's northeast district of Bwiza this week that has killed nearly 30 people. On Thursday the capital's residents stayed indoors and most business was at a halt.
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
155	Belgium	1991	13	Corporate	"BRUSSELS, Dec 20, Reuter - Belgian polyurethane producer Gechem SA said its main shareholder, holding company Societe Generale de Belgique SA, would participate in Gechem's planned 3.00 billion franc capital boost. 

""We have the full support of our majority shareholder,"" said Gechem chief executive officer Luc Vansteenkiste at a news conference. SGB owns about 59 pct of Gechem. 
 
TD 
 Earlier Gechem said it would raise its capital in the first half of 1992. 

""The amount is fixed initially at three billion francs, but it could eventually be raised if an overall industrial plan is finalised in the first quarter of 1992,"" Vansteenkiste said. 

Gechem said the capital increase would be open to all shareholders under equal conditions. 

Vansteenkiste said the the terms for the capital boost were not set yet and that it was too early to say whether the new shares would be preferred shares which were issued by Gechem in 1988. 

Gechem's stock was suspended on the Brussels forward market today. On Thursday its preferred shares closed at 336 francs. 
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
287	Belgium	2002	17	Political	"BRUSSELS, Dec 17 (Reuters) - European Union transport ministers will be called to an emergency meeting on New Year's Eve if EU states do not settle a row about Alpine truck traffic this week, officials said on Tuesday. 

The long-running Austrian trucking squabble has wider consequences than its potential impact on road transport as Vienna has linked the issue to its backing of a complex EU savings tax plan. 
 
TD 
 EU diplomats have one last chance to settle the so-called ""eco-points"" problem on Wednesday, after which time Denmark, whose six-month stint at the EU helm ends on January 31, will force the issue to a vote. 

""We now have the outline of a possible solution which is backed by Austria,"" a Danish spokesman told Reuters. 

Diplomats said there was a large majority in favour of the Danish compromise, but if Italy still objected, ministers would be summoned to Brussels to vote on the issue. 

Denmark has given countries until 1400 GMT on Wednesday to say whether they can accept the deal. 

Under EU procedures, it has to give 14 days' notice to force ministers to attend an extraordinary Council meeting, which means the date has been set for New Year's Eve. 

Austria's finance minister Karl-Heinz Grasser said earlier on Tuesday that Vienna would hold up an agreement on a separate EU plan to create a European savings tax if its does not get a satisfactory deal on the truck dispute. 

The row pits Austria, which is concerned about pollution from trucks using its mountain passes, against neighbouring countries which need to cross the Alps to get their goods to market. 

When Austria joined the EU in 1995, it negotiated a quota system to limit the expected increase in haulage traffic across its transit routes. The eco-point system means truckers that want to transit Austria have to obtain special permits. 

Austria wants to see the scheme continue in some form after it officially expires at the end of 2003. The Danish compromise would allow quotas to continue for up to three more years. 

In a concession to concerned countries like Germany, Italy and Greece, for which Austria is a vital trade route, the least polluting category of trucks would not need transit permits. 

But the number of eco-points available to other trucks would diminish gradually over the period, an idea that concerns the freight lobbby and has led neighbouring Italy to oppose the compromise, according to diplomats. 
 
"	2	2	1	2	1	0		1	1.5	2
45	Belgium	2002	18	Political	"BRUSSELS, Dec 17 (Reuters) - European Union transport ministers will be called to an emergency meeting on New Year's Eve if EU states do not settle a row about Alpine truck traffic this week, officials said on Tuesday. 

The long-running Austrian trucking squabble has wider consequences than its potential impact on road transport as Vienna has linked the issue to its backing of a complex EU savings tax plan. 
 
TD 
 EU diplomats have one last chance to settle the so-called ""eco-points"" problem on Wednesday, after which time Denmark, whose six-month stint at the EU helm ends on January 31, will force the issue to a vote. 

""We now have the outline of a possible solution which is backed by Austria,"" a Danish spokesman told Reuters. 

Diplomats said there was a large majority in favour of the Danish compromise, but if Italy still objected, ministers would be summoned to Brussels to vote on the issue. 

Denmark has given countries until 1400 GMT on Wednesday to say whether they can accept the deal. 

Under EU procedures, it has to give 14 days' notice to force ministers to attend an extraordinary Council meeting, which means the date has been set for New Year's Eve. 

Austria's finance minister Karl-Heinz Grasser said earlier on Tuesday that Vienna would hold up an agreement on a separate EU plan to create a European savings tax if its does not get a satisfactory deal on the truck dispute. 

The row pits Austria, which is concerned about pollution from trucks using its mountain passes, against neighbouring countries which need to cross the Alps to get their goods to market. 

When Austria joined the EU in 1995, it negotiated a quota system to limit the expected increase in haulage traffic across its transit routes. The eco-point system means truckers that want to transit Austria have to obtain special permits. 

Austria wants to see the scheme continue in some form after it officially expires at the end of 2003. The Danish compromise would allow quotas to continue for up to three more years. 

In a concession to concerned countries like Germany, Italy and Greece, for which Austria is a vital trade route, the least polluting category of trucks would not need transit permits. 

But the number of eco-points available to other trucks would diminish gradually over the period, an idea that concerns the freight lobbby and has led neighbouring Italy to oppose the compromise, according to diplomats. 
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
493	Belgium	2003	25	Corporate	"BRUSSELS, Dec 12 (Reuters) - Minority shareholders of the Belgian National Bank (BNAB.BR) will decide early next week on how to react after losing a battle in the supreme court over the ownership of the central bank's assets. 

The shareholders, led by advocacy group Deminor, had filed a lawsuit to overturn a 2002 law that made the bank's foreign currency and gold reserves property of the Belgian state, which owns 50 percent of the bank. 
 
TD 
 The law said the bank would manage these reserves on behalf of the state. 

Deminor had argued that the assets ought to be property of all shareholders in the bank, including private investors. 

But the court ruled that Deminor had misinterpreted the law. 

Although the bank is organised as a private company, it has a public mandate, the court said. 

A spokesman for Deminor said the firm will present its analysis of the ruling and the steps it will take early next week, including a possible appeal to the European Court of Human Rights. 

The stock fell sharply on the ruling on Thursday and dealers said the shares would remain volatile until the shareholders decided what to do next. 

The bank's stock has risen sharply since August 2002, when investors began speculating heavily on the possibility of the government buying out the private investors. 
 
"	1	1	1	2	0	1			1	1.5
496	Belgium	2005	28	Political	"BRUSSELS, Dec 5 (Reuters) - A Turkish woman wanted in her country for the murder of a prominent businessman will stand trial in Belgium on Tuesday for belonging to a militant group in a case that has strained relations between the two countries. 

Fehriye Erdal, who made headlines in 2000 with a hunger strike to protest against her arrest in Belgium, will appear in court with 10 other suspects on charges including illegal possession of firearms and belonging to a terrorist organisation. 
 
TD 
 Tuesday's hearing in a court in the historic town of Bruges is preliminary, with the trial beginning in earnest on Jan. 23, according to the federal prosecutor's office. 

Among the suspects standing trial are seven Turks, two Belgians and two Germans. 

Erdal and the other suspects were arrested in 1999 when police raided a house in the Belgian coastal town of Knokke-Heist. 

Other charges include belonging to a criminal organisation, as well as possession of false documents and stolen goods. 

Erdal is wanted in Turkey where she is accused of being involved in the 1996 murder of businessman Ozdemir Sabanci, a member of one of the country's richest families. 

But Belgian prosecutors have refused to charge her for the murder, saying they are not legally competent to do it. 

A Belgian court upheld their decision in November, prompting Sabanci's family to file an appeal and Turkey to criticise Belgium, saying it gave the impression of protecting terrorists. 

Erdal's case first strained relations between the two countries after her arrest in 1999 when Belgium refused to extradite her to Turkey because it had the death penalty. 

Turkey has since repealed the penalty as part of a series of measures to prepare for entry talks to the European Union. 

Although Erdal has acknowledged belonging to the outlawed Revolutionary People's Liberation Party/Front (DHKP/C), which claimed responsibility for shooting Sabanci, she has denied any involvement in the killing. 

The largest of Turkey's many extreme leftist factions, the DHKP/C was behind suicide attacks in 2001 and 2003 and is on the EU's blacklist of ""terrorist"" organisations. 

Lieve Pellens, a spokeswoman for the federal prosecutor's office, said the prosecutors were not only seeking to put the suspects in jail but also shut down the DHKP/C in Belgium where it is registered as a political organisation. 
 
"	5	3	5	2	4	3	1	1	5	2.5
47	Belgium	1992	32	Political	"BRUSSELS, Dec 14, Reuter - Hundreds of job-hunters from the west African state of Burkina Faso have been smuggled to Italy via Belgium, the Brussels public prosecutor's office said on Monday. 

A spokesman said two taxi drivers, a Belgian and a Moroccan, have been arrested in France in connection with the smuggling ring which he said has been working for over a year. 
 
TD 
 The Burkina Faso job-hunters, who came to Europe via Brussels Zaventem airport because they did not need a visa to enter Belgium, were forced to pay 20,000 Belgian francs ($620) for their trip by taxi from Zaventem to Lille, northern France. 

They were then charged ""an exorbitant price"" for their trip to Italy where they ended up working for poor pay in construction and mining jobs. 

""To these people, it must have been a fortune they had to pay,"" the spokesman said. 

The police and public prosecutor's office would give no further details but the Belgian daily Het Nieuwsblad said at least 20 people from Burkina Faso were smuggled to Naples each week where they worked in marble quarries and tile companies controlled by the local mafia. 
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
64	Belgium	1998	33	Political	"BRUSSELS, Dec 18 (Reuters) - The European Commission said on Friday it was taking Austria, Belgium and Portugal to court for breaching European Union environment laws. 

The EU's executive Commission said it was also issuing warning letters - the final stage before court action - to Belgium, Germany, Ireland, Greece and Italy about violations of the 15-nation bloc's green laws. 
 
TD 
 Since early December, the Commission has examined nearly 90 cases of alleged abuse of the environmental rules by the EU governments who approved them. Belgium is seen as one of the worst offenders. 

The legal action announced on Friday concerns Austria and Belgium's failure to impose adequate pollution controls on incineration plants dealing with hazardous waste, and Portugal's failure to curb air pollution from industrial plants. 

The Commission said it would take the matter to the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg. 

Belgium and Greece received warnings for failing to deal with pollution caused by poorly treated sewage water. 

Greece, Italy and Portugal were chastised for not setting up proper disposal facilities for dangerous waste. 

Germany and Ireland were taken to task for not assessing industrial and infrastructure projects for their impact on the environment before giving approval for them to go ahead. ((Gillian Handyside, Brussels Newsroom +32 2 287 6835, fax +32 2 230 5573, gillian.handyside@reuters.com)). 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
72	Belgium	1990	51	Political	"BRUSSELS, Dec 20, Reuter - Concessions which the European Community offered on agriculture at stalled GATT world trade talks are still valid, EC trade commissioner Frans Andriessen said at a briefing, according to an EC spokesman. 

The EC originally offered to cut internal support by 30 pct between 1986 and 1996. The U.S. and Cairns group of 14 farm-exporting countries want 75 pct cuts in internal support and 90 pct off export subsidies. 
 
TD 
 But late in the week of December 7, the date by which four years of GATT negotiations were supposed to end, EC had offered some improvements. 

These involved limits on quantities exported with subsidies, improved access for imports amounting to three pct of domestic consumption, and taking oilseeds and soybeans out of the EC's controversial rebalancing plan. 

The starting point for resumed talks in Geneva on January 15 is therefore expected to incorporate these elements. 

Andriessen was quoted as saying that reaching a deal with the U.S. alone was not the community's ambition. Any compromise had to satisfy the Cairns group and developing countries which are not members of that group, he said. 

Andriessen added that GATT negotiators should not underestimate the principle the EC had conceded in proposing changes in its farm policy to meet GATT objectives, saying that this was more important than the figures now on offer. 

He said he still believed the GATT secretariat had acted too hastily in halting the talks, as the EC had been moving on agriculture and there had been progress in other areas. 

The EC's offer has not been published as a paper, and is partly incorporated in the community's answers to nine questions that GATT director-general Arthur Dunkel put to all participants before the week-long negotiations started. 
 
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
126	Belgium	1995	59	Political	"BRUSSELS, Dec 5 (Reuter) - A 17th-century Belgian Catholic university has courted controversy by deciding to install condom vending machines on campus, radio stations said on Tuesday. 

The University of Leuven, one of the oldest universities in Belgium with a reputation in theology and philosophy, said it would put machines near canteens, sports halls and other places where students gather. 
 
TD 
 Professor Dirk van Gerven, head of a student relations committee, said the machines were a responsible approach to AIDS. ""From a Christian perspective we must ensure sexual contact should only take place between long-term partners,"" he said. 

But the action could cause trouble, as Catholic Church teaching forbids the use of artificial birth control. 

Radio stations led their afternoon bulletins with the news. But Leuven is not setting a precedent -- under an education and health ministry programme condom machines were installed at some secondary schools as early as 1993. 

 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
28	Belgium	2007	63	Corporate	"BRUSSELS, Dec 7 (Reuters) - Belgian banking and insurance group KBC said on Friday it believed a stand-alone strategy was in the best interest of its shareholders. 
 
TD 
 ""Regardless of upcoming consolidation moves, KBC believes that a well-executed stand-alone strategy is the most attractive value proposition for its stakeholders,"" Chief Executive Andre Bergen said in comments prepared for an investor presentation. 

""Neither large size, nor acquisitiveness, nor international presence, nor asset diversification alone lead to better returns,"" Bergen said. 

""(There is) no evident business case for us which shows that teaming up would create more value than when pursuing a stand-alone strategy."" 

KBC will seek to enhance its local positions in East and Central Europe, which it now refers to as its second home market, Bergen added. 

He also reiterated that KBC was confident it could deliver a minimum of 12 percent growth in earnings per share on average in ""the years to come"". (Reporting by Julien Ponthus, Editing by Erica Billingham) 
 
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
438	Belgium	2002	66	Political	"BRUSSELS, Dec 2 (Reuters) - Thor Pedersen, chairman of the Council of European Union finance ministers, said on Monday he saw tough talks on planned new EU rules to tax savings but he did not expect the debate to drag beyond Christmas. 

EU finance ministers will try to agree on Tuesday on a system of exchange of information on income from savings to crack down on cross-border tax evasion. 
 
TD 
 ""It is not going to be easy,"" Pedersen, who is Danish finance minister, told reporters ahead of the euro group meeting of finance ministers on Monday evening. That meeting was due to focus on the Stability and Growth Pact designed to encourage fiscal discipline. 

But asked whether he thought the EU would extend its self-imposed year-end deadline to agree on the issue, Pedersen said: ""We'll see what happens tomorrow, I am sure we are finished before Christmas."" 
 
"	1	5	1	4	0	1			1	4.5
132	Belgium	1991	67	Corporate	"BRUSSELS, Nov 22, Reuter - Dutch car leasing company Lease Plan Holding NV said it planned a three billion Belgian franc commercial paper programme, becoming the first non-resident issuer on the fledgling Belgian commercial paper market. 

The company said in a statement the programme also offered maturities up to two years, which was new on the Belgian market. 
 
TD 
 The programme is being issued through Generale Bank, which has pioneered the Belgian CP market. 

Marco Coppolse, Lease Plan's finance director, said at a news conference 500 million francs to one billion francs could be issued next week. 

But this would depend on the interest of institutional investors such as insurance companies, Sicav mutual funds and companies, he said. 

He said the previous commercial paper issues in Belgium had been for one year or less. ""The leasing sector typically needs funding on a longer basis,"" Coppolse said. 

Lease Plan, which is owned by Dutch ABN-Amro Bank via its Bank Mees & Hope NV subsidiary, said it will seek to use the programme in the one to six-month range but also in maturities of one year and over. 

The programme is in the form of promissory notes. Clearing and secondary trading is through Generale Bank, Belgium's largest bank. 

Lease Plan said it was market leader in fleet leasing in Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg (Benelux) and the largest independent European car leasing company, with 140,000 cars under management. 

Commercial paper issues in Belgium so far have been made by Belgian companies Tractebel SA and Tessenderlo and Finnish Kemira Oy, through its Belgian coordination centre. Lease Plan is the first foreign company not to use a Belgian unit. 
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
140	Belgium	1998	80	Political	"BRUSSELS, Nov 30 (Reuters) - Belgian detectives who dissolved a human body in cleaning fluid while investigating a crime came under fire on Monday from newspapers which said their methods showed no respect for the dead. 

Brussels police, investigating allegations a Hungarian clergyman murdered up to 20 people and dissolved the bodies in cleaning agent, performed an experiment to see if it was possible by placing a dead body in a vat of ""Cleanest"". 
 
TD 
 Within 24 hours the body, which had been donated to medical science, disappeared without trace. 

Daily tabloid Het Laatste Nieuws quoted two professors of ethics who said they had ""serious reservations"" about the experiment. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
299	Belgium	2004	92	Political	"BRUSSELS, Oct 28 (Reuters) - Incoming EU Commission chief Jose Manuel Barroso faced pressure on Thursday to make sweeping changes to his team after withdrawing his first line-up to avoid a humiliating European Parliament defeat. 

His climbdown on Wednesday plunged the 25-nation bloc into political chaos just two days before EU leaders gather in Rome to sign a constitutional treaty intended to herald a new era of easier, cleaner decision-making in Brussels. 
 
TD 
 Barroso has vowed to win backing for a rejigged team within weeks. But top EU figures warned he would have to do more than replace Rocco Buttiglione, the Italian nominee for justice chief whose traditional Roman Catholic views sparked the dispute. 

""This is not just about Mr Buttiglione's candidacy, although that is, to put it diplomatically, a difficult case,"" Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker said of the Italian's comments that homosexuality is a sin and marriage is for women to have children. 

""There are three or four commissioners who did not have the support of the parliament. We need a somewhat broader change,"" Juncker told Germany's N-TV television, without giving names. 

Outgoing EU Commission President Romano Prodi also called for more than one change but voiced confidence the parliament, which has used the showdown to demonstrate it is no paper tiger, would give Barroso backing in a new vote next month. 

""I am confident the parliament will give a favourable vote on November 17,"" Prodi told Italian television. 

Barroso said he would consult EU leaders and the parliament before making new proposals in coming weeks. But he said he planned to change only ""what is necessary and sufficient"". 

Yet the pressure on Barroso could come from his most loyal supporters. 

Leaders of the conservative European People's Party said they would not tolerate Buttiglione being sacrificed alone. 

They are now seen pressing for other changes involving Hungarian Socialist Laszlo Kovacs (energy), Latvian Green Ingrida Udre (taxation) and Danish Liberal Mariann Fischer Boel (agriculture) or Dutch Liberal Neelie Kroes (competition). 

Others said Italy would likely join calls for wider changes so that their candidate Buttiglione, who has so far not shown any public signs of stepping down of his own accord, was not seen as being singled out as a scapegoat. 

""I don't think Italy will accept only one (change in commissioner),"" Jens Peter Bonde, leader of a eurosceptic group in the European Parliament, told Reuters. 

""I see three to four changes, mostly new people. It depends on the strength of reactions between prime ministers,"" he added. 

With the EU struggling to convince its publics of the benefits of its historic enlargement to the former Iron Curtain countries, the last thing it wants is to be preoccupied with the Brussels horse-trading that has tarnished its image in the past. 

EU leaders hope Friday's glittering ceremony in Rome to sign the EU's first constitutional treaty will mark a new start for the bloc. Yet they also acknowledge that national referendums due in several EU countries could still torpedo the text. 

Graham Watson, whose pivotal 88-member Liberals Group denied Barroso the votes he needed, suggested a limited reshuffle might just secure him a majority and warned the former Portuguese leader his own credibility was at stake in the coming weeks. 

""I hope he will not throw out the Barosso baby with the Buttiglione bathwater,"" he told reporters. - Additional reporting by the Rome bureau; Nick Antonovics in Berlin; Aine Gallagher and Lisa Jucca in Strasbourg. 
 
"	3	4	2	5	1	4			2.5	4.5
4	Belgium	2002	93	Corporate	"BRUSSELS, Dec 10 (Reuters) - The European Commission will formally propose new merger rules on Wednesday that will provide the opening shots for a tussle among the 15 European Union members over how best to regulate company acquisitions. 

The Commission has found a renewed urgency for the review because the European Union's court of first instance this year reversed three of the Commission's prohibitions. The court said the Commission was sloppy and failed to prove its case. 
 
TD 
 Competition Commissioner Mario Monti's proposals will mark the end of months of drafting, consulting and revising, but the final decision on merger rules will be up to the EU's 15 member states. 

Monti did much the same thing for a major overhaul of antitrust rules and it took member states nearly a year to settle differences before approving a final version this month. 

Companies want the rules updated because they believe they often do not get a fair deal before the Commission and do not like the way they are reviewed. 

One innovation is to improve the quality of the Commission's work by installing a chief economist, consulting with a review committee and seeking closer oversight from a member nation advisory committee. 

But member states find some of the Commission's proposals difficult or unworkable. 

For example, Brussels currently reviews the biggest cases while member state competition agencies review smaller cases. There has always been a question of where to draw the line between big and small. 

Monti proposed that mergers that need review in three or more countries should wind up in Brussels, to make life easier for companies. 

But Germany and some others raised objections, so Monti came up with a more complicated approach that some countries' competition officials find difficult to understand. 

The new approach ""does not solve the multiple jurisdiction problem,"" said an official of one EU state. ""I am sceptical as to whether it will address the problem."" 

POINTS TO SETTLE 

Some of the other areas addressed in the merger review changes and their prospects are: 

- Legal standard: The Commission decided to ban mergers that might make a firm dominant, instead of those which result in a ""substantial lessening of competition"". 

But Britain and Ireland say the old dominance test may lead to the approval of some mergers which are anti-competitive and could raise prices to consumers. 

Monti has added new clarifying language, but it probably does not go far enough. 

- More time: Some people think the Commission is having a tough time in court because the four months it has for an in-depth investigation is not enough. The new rule can add a month or two, depending on how it is used. 

- Guidelines: Lawyers designing mergers will get rules of the road laying out the criteria for evaluating mergers between firms of a similar type, known as horizontal mergers. 

For the first time, they will have written guidelines that allow them, in some circumstances, to argue for approval based on efficiencies. 

- More information for companies: The new rules open up third party objections to the merging parties sooner. They will also get regular briefings on the status of their deal. 

- Strengthening the court: Although a Commission ruling has been reversed three times, Monti is taking a strong stand in favour of granting the court more resources to help give companies the right to judicial review. 
 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
336	Belgium	1995	96	Political	"BRUSSELS, Nov 19 (Reuter) - Belgian prime minister Jean-Luc Dehaene on Sunday brushed aside media criticism his government was focusing only on a future European economic and monetary union and ignoring the country's employment problems. 

He told BRTN television it would be totally wrong to attach more weight to a monetary union than to employment. 
 
TD 
 His centre-left government has been under attack for concentrating on reducing Belgium's budget deficit -- to meet one of the key conditions for entry into such a union -- while doing little to counter falling employment. 

Railway unions, fearing thousands of jobs are to go and wage increases might be curtailed in a restructuring drive to cut state spending and make transport by train more efficient, are in the middle of a series of strikes. 

In the private sector there has been a growing number of strikes and protests over jobs in recent weeks as well. 

In his first major television appearance since the October budget Dehaene defended his policies, saying towering debts and the accompanying high interest costs served nobody and nothing well, and that included those looking to create jobs. 

Massive government debt can be a factor in keeping interest rates high, raising the cost of investment and consumer credit and leading to large pay claims as a form of compensation. 

Dehaene said that while it was true jobs had been lost this was part of a transitional process as the Belgian economy readied itself for tomorrow's challenges. 

These included a more integrated Europe, a global information society, and a generally more competitive world in which production required fewer people and more capital. 

Dehaene attacked unions and employees for ""attaching more importance to consolidating the attainments of the past."" 

What was needed were lower wage costs, which implied cutting social security contributions paid by employers, particularly at the low end of the wage scale, and ensuring pay increases did not exceed those in other European Union countries. He proposed companies began linking pay rises to their profitability. 

""We are in a paradoxical situation: we have a relatively healthy economy which could use a dose of higher growth (creating jobs), and are also confronted with restructurings to boost productivity accompanied by large job losses,"" he said. 

Dehaene accused the Belgian media of presenting a one-sided picture, noting recently a number of foreign companies had announced investments which would create future jobs. 

He denied the government was doing little for employment. At present its job creation bills were going through parliament and were due to become effective early next year. 

There were other positive signs - exports were still growing after recovering at the end of 1994. Corporate investment rose by 17 percent in August. ""That is not nothing,"" he said. 

Car sales were up. Construction was being stimulated through government tax breaks, he noted. Company profits had risen, which would result in new investments. 

""By fiscal and other means we must mobilise savings for (investments in) the economy. We must give the consumer more confidence in the economy,"" he said. The current phase of low interest rates mean the time was right. 

Low rates mean savers get a lower return on their savings books compared with a period of rising interest rates. 

To encourage investment wage costs would have to be cut by speeding up reform in the costly social system. 

Pension costs would increasingly have to be borne by the employee rather than the state system. 

To ensure it remained viable in the next 10 to 15 years, Belgium would have to keep the current ratio in which one employee finances the social benefits for one fellow citizen from deteriorating, Dehaene said in the BRTN interview. 

 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
321	Belgium	2003	99	Corporate	"BRUSSELS, Nov 20 (Reuters) - British broadcasting and photographic services firm Vitec Group Plc (VTC.L) is about to acquire Belgian digital electronics maker EVS Broadcast Equipment (EVSB.BR), a Belgian daily said on Thursday. 

EVS said last month it was in exclusive talks with a potential buyer who had made a friendly bid valuing the company at 98 million euros. 
 
TD 
 Financial daily L'Echo said the transaction would be made public before the end of next week. 

EVS is a digital electronics maker whose servers are used by TV broadcasters to show slow-motion instant replays at sporting events. 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
469	Belgium	2005	99	Political	"BRUSSELS, Oct 1 (Reuters) - About 4,000 Turkish Kurds marched through the centre of Brussels on Saturday, demanding that Kurdistan is recognised and included in Turkey's entry talks with the European Union, planned to start on Monday. 

The demonstration, organised by the Confederation of Kurdish Associations in Europe, also called on Ankara to free Abdullah Ocalan, the leader of the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) who was captured in 1999. 
 
TD 
 PKK has been fighting for 20 years for a Kurdish homeland in southeast Turkey and demonstrators called for a political solution to be found as part of the planned EU-Turkey talks. 

Organisers had hoped that 15,000 Kurds living in Europe would march through downtown Brussels, but many busses carrying participants were delayed due to bad weather, police said. 

EU foreign ministers are scheduled to meet in an emergency session in Luxembourg on Sunday night in an attempt to agree a negotiating mandate in time for the poor, populous Muslim nation to begin long-awaited accession talks less than 24 hours later. 

EU president Britain is determined to clinch an agreement on Sunday, but Austria insists the EU must offer Ankara an explicit alternative to full membership. 

Turkey has warned it would walk away if offered such a second-class status. 

Austrian Foreign Ministry Secretary of State Hans Winkler repeated Vienna's demand, telling Austrian daily Kurier in an interview published on Saturday: ""We want the negotiations to start but we want everyone to know what we are talking about. There must be other options than full accession"". 

 
"	1	1	1	2	0	1			1	1.5
274	Belgium	1999	100	Political	"BRUSSELS, Dec 6 (Reuters) - The wedding of Crown Prince Philippe to Flemish aristocrat Mathilde d'Udekem d'Acoz, billed as a bridge across Belgium's language divide, has highlighted divisions instead. 

Philippe, 39, and Mathilde, 13 years his junior, married in a lavish ceremony in Brussels on Saturday. 
 
TD 
 Mathilde's Flemish birth and French upbringing should have been the perfect union of Belgium's two linguistic groups - the Dutch-speaking Flemish population and Francophone Walloons. 

But by Monday, it was a symbol of their differences. 

While leading French-language newspapers led their front pages with rapturous accounts of the wedding, the main Dutch-language papers studiously downplayed the event. 

Flemish De Morgen reported on page one that spectators had stripped flowers from Brussels' Cathedral St Michel following Saturday's wedding. Inside, a scathing commentary was headlined: ""Shame, emptiness and dissatisfaction."" 

Another newspaper found Mathilde's Dutch pronunciation wanting when she repeated her wedding vows. 

FRENCH TAKE A DIFFERENT VIEW 

By contrast, French-language newspaper Le Soir wrote in a front-page editorial: ""In the space of a few hours, Belgium appeared joyous"". 

In an allusion to the paedophile and food scandals that have rocked Belgium in recent years, Le Soir said, ""And the smile of Mathilde allowed the restoration... of an image tarnished by Dutroux and dioxin."" 

Fellow francophone newspaper La Libre Belgique published 12 pages of wedding cover on Monday to follow its 14-page special edition on Sunday. 

Yvan Vanden Berghe, professor of contemporary history at Antwerp UIA University, said Palace efforts to manipulate media coverage had clearly misfired. 

""We are creating an atmosphere and political expectations of Belgians uniting again, but of course this is not true,"" Vanden Berghe said. 
 
"	4	5	5	5	1	0			4.5	5
385	Brazil	2009	8	Corporate	"SAO PAULO, Nov 27 (Reuters) - Banco do Brasil , Brazil's largest lender, is likely to pay the city of Sao Paulo 726 million reais ($413 million) to handle its payroll, the largest of any municipality in the country, Valor Economico newspaper reported.

Both parties are also in advanced talks to transfer to Banco do Brasil management of Sao Paulo's banking relations with its suppliers, the newspaper said without citing its sources.
 
TD 
 Banco do Brasil did not return calls seeking comment.

State-run Banco do Brasil, which under the instructions of President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva has been aggressively winning market share from private lenders in the wake of the global credit crisis, has gotten help from the federal government to win the Sao Paulo contracts, Valor said.

Itau Unibanco , the largest non-government bank in the country, currently runs a five-year payroll banking agreement for the city that expires in 2010, while Banco Bradesco is in charge of running Sao Paulo's banking affairs with suppliers, the newspaper said.

Payroll management is one of the banking industry's most profitable businesses, because banks offer services to customers that mostly enjoy long-term job stability and have wages above the national average.

Mayor Gilberto Kassab, a member of the opposition Democratas Party, is planning to use the proceeds from the sale of payroll management rights to Banco do Brasil to invest in public transport projects, the newspaper said.

If Sao Paulo signs with Banco do Brasil, it might have to return to Itau Unibanco part of the 510 million reais it received in Sept. 2005, Valor said.

 
"	1	2	1	3	0	1			1	2.5
31	Brazil	1996	9	Political	"BRASILIA, Dec 12 (Reuter) - Brazil's Senate approved a new corporate tax bill, aimed at reducing the scope for fraud and increasing the country's tax base, officials said on Thursday. 

The upper house approved in a show of hands the bill, which now goes for signature by President Fernando Henrique Cardoso, the official said. 
 
TD 
 The bill, which does not raise the rate of corporate tax but closes several loopholes, will bring Brazil's taxation system up to international standards, Federal Tax Secretary Everardo Maciel told reporters earlier on Thursday. 

It also seeks to simplify tax procedure, requiring payment on a quarterly basis, rather than monthly. 

-- William Schomberg, Brasilia newsroom 5561 2230358 

 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
67	Brazil	1991	14	Corporate	"BRASILIA, Nov 26, Reuter - A visiting delegation of Japanese businessmen said they were impressed by Brazil's efforts to modernise and liberalise its economy but hinted they were unlikely to make major new investments until the government had agreed to a pact with the International Monetary Fund and stabilized the economy. 

President Fernando Collor de Mello and his government gave the Japanese Economic Mission to Latin America red-carpet treatment in an attempt to win back Brazil's traditional place as a major recipient of Japanese capital. 
 
TD 
 According to government figures, in 1980 Brazil was the third biggest recipient of Japanese investment; by 1990 it was the 10th. 

Shoichi Saba, vice chairman of the Keidanren business federation and leader of the mission, told a meeting with the heads of Brazilian state companies on Tuesday that Japan had been impressed by the scope of recent political and economic changes in Latin America, including Brazil. 

But, while stressing Brazil's potential for future growth, he said the government had to give more attention to basic infrastructure such as ports, electricity and communications. 

Economy Minister Marcilio Marques Moreira admitted to the delegation on Monday that ""there have been certain problems, which have created a certain distancing between our countries"" but added: ""Now we are trying....To reverse that reality."" 

An official at the Economy Ministry said, however, that the government did not expect any sudden rush of new Japanese money. ""The Japanese asked a lot of questions but there were no signs of any new investment now,"" the official said. 

Yukinori Ito, senior executive director of the Export- Import Bank of Japan, said the prospect that Brazil would soon win IMF approval for its economic programme and reach agreement with private bank creditors was very encouraging. 

Unofficially, he said, the fulfilment of these two conditions was likely to clear the way for a resumption of Japanese loans to Brazil. But Masaaki Kurahara, counsellor at Marubeni Corp, warned participants at the meeting that a stabilization of Brazil's chaotic economy was an essential precondition for any productive economic cooperation with Japan. 
 
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
185	Brazil	1999	18	Political	"BRASILIA, Nov 30 (Reuters) - A top Brazilian investigator criticised U.S. government programmes to fight drug trafficking in Latin America on Tuesday, saying they cut the flow of narcotics abroad but triggered a surge in the local markets. 

Congressional deputy Moroni Torgan, head of a landmark parliamentary investigation that created an uproar in Brazil with its findings of a huge organised crime network, said U.S. intervention turned transit countries into consumers of illegal drugs. 
 
TD 
 ""We have seen this in Venezuela, Argentina and Paraguay,"" the former federal police officer told a seminar in the Brazilian capital on money laundering. 

""The countries where the United States helps in the fight against drugs, the international traffic decreases, but the internal market grows,"" Torgan said. 

His pioneering commission, which uses parliamentary powers to call witnesses, has led to the arrest of at least 100 people including high-level politicians, judges, prominent businessmen and police officers on charges of drug trafficking. 

Known as ""The Untouchables"" for the U.S. investigators who put legendary gangster Al Capone behind bars, the members of the commission have uncovered extensive organised crime on a scale unheard of before in Brazil. 

After a decade of a U.S.-backed war on trafficking in South America, Brazil, which shares borders with every country on the continent except two, has become a common route for mafias in drug producing countries to export to North America and Europe. 

 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
387	Brazil	1993	27	Political	"BRASILIA, Dec 10 (Reuter) - A congressional inquiry's interim report on a bribery scandal was cancelled amid signs of discord in the investigation, televison reported. 

The panel voted 12-4 to cancel the interim account and issue only a final report at the end of the investigation, scheduled for Jan. 17, Globo television said. 
 
TD 
 Dep. Roberto Magalhaes, chosen to write the report, had wanted to issue it by the end of next week to show what progress the panel had made in its seven weeks of investigating a bribery and kickback scheme centred on budget allocations. 

Committee members had said it could recommend that up to a dozen legislators be expelled for their role in the scandal. 

However, Magalhaes said there had been resistance to issuing an interim report from panel members, party leaders and other legislators. 

""If the parties are finding the report inconvenient and if the majority of Congress thinks so too, our going against their wishes can lead to a confrontation,"" Magalhaes said. 

""That confrontation between the panel and Congress and parties is only going to lead to the weakest party losing,"" he said. 

 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
255	Brazil	2005	28	Political	"BRASILIA, Brazil, Nov 25 (Reuters) - A 36-year-old Briton imprisoned in Brazil on child abuse charges is on hunger strike to protest his innocence and is beginning to weaken after going 24 days without food. 

Drinking only water and herbal tea, Craig Alden is demanding Brazil gives him a fair trial after he was imprisoned in 2002 having being found guilty of abusing children at an orphanage he founded in the town of Planaltina, Goias state. 
 
TD 
 ""If I'm not allowed to be free and have my human rights, I don't want to live like this,"" Alden said by telephone on Friday from the prison in the rural town 35 miles (55 km) from the capital Brasilia. 

Alden, from Cambridgeshire, England, said he was framed by local officials after he refused to go along with what he alleged were embezzlement and other corrupt practices. 

A Planaltina judge convicted him to 48 years in prison after several interns accused him of molesting them at the orphanage he founded in 1992 to help street children. 

Alden, who is married to a Brazilian and has a 10-year-old son, said he never got a defense in his trial after his lawyer missed a deadline to file a statement. 

Alden and his supporters have demanded British Prime Minister Tony Blair intervene on his behalf. 

He is complaining of muscle pain and extreme fatigue. His doctor told him he may be able to go for 30 or 40 days before his life is in danger. 

The British embassy in Brasilia said it was pressing Brazilian authorities to respond to an independent lawyer's report that questioned whether Alden received a fair trial. 

Alden said he could not wait any longer for justice. 

""I need my government, or the Brazilian one, to stand up and say 'this guy says he's innocent, let him prove it',"" he said. 
 
"	1	5	2	5	1	0			1.5	5
167	Brazil	2004	30	Corporate	"RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil, Nov 26 (Reuters) - Brazil's state-run BNDES development bank is loaning national oil firm Petrobras (PETR4.SA) (PBR.N) $378 million to help it build its planned P-52 offshore oil rig, the bank said on Friday. 

The loan, which was negotiated over almost two years, was contingent on state-owned Petroleo Brasileiro (Petrobras) using the cash to pay domestic suppliers. 
 
TD 
 The total cost of the P-52 rig is $895 million and is part of Petrobras' planned $2.4 billion investment in three new oil platforms. 

The loan will carry an interest rate of Libor plus 2 percent, with total cost estimated at 5.4 percent per year and amortization in up to 10 years from when the rig starts operation, the National Economic and Social Development Bank (BNDES) said. 

The P-52 rig is scheduled to start operating in 2006 in the Campos basin and handle production of 180,000 barrels per day of oil and gas. 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
165	Brazil	2002	31	Corporate	"RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil, Dec 5 (Reuters) - Brazil's state oil giant Petroleo Brasileiro SA (Petrobras) (PETR4.SA) (PBR.N) discovered a deep-sea oil field in the Campos Basin off the coast of Espirito Santo state, the company said Thursday. 

A company spokeswoman said the field - drilled at almost 1,500 meters under the sea about 76 kilometers off the coast in block BC-60 of the Campos Basin - was evaluated at 300 million barrels. 
 
TD 
 The area near well 1-ESS-116 should yield 20,000 barrels per day (bpd) but no date has been forecast for production to begin. 

Petrobras has 9.3 billion barrels of proven reserves and plans to raise this volume to 13 billion by 2005. The company produces an average of 1.5 million bpd and is expected to pump up production to 1.9 million bpd by then. 

The crude from the new field is very heavy at 19 degrees on the scale of the American Petroleum Institute (API), although slightly better than the 17 degrees API recently found in the nearby Jubarte field. 

The new well is about 10 kilometers from the large Jubarte field, which has been estimated at 600 million barrels and began oil and gas production in October. The Jubarte is putting out 17,000 barrels a day with the potential for 25,000 barrels. 

The new find did not surprise the market but was considered a positive sign, confirming Petrobras' expectations for the region. 

""It's within the company's plan to boost its proven reserves and shows that the Jubarte field is extremely strategic,"" said Fator Doria Atherino analyst Luiz Paulo Foggetti. 

""This is very significant because other petroleum companies are growing at 1-2 percent, against Petrobras that is growing at 10-12 percent,"" he said. 

The discovery was made in the Campos Basin, Brazil's main petroleum reserve off the coast of Rio de Janeiro and Espirito Santo. The basin accounts for about 80 percent of the country's oil production. 

Brazil, Latin America's No. 3 oil producer, officially opened its reserves to foreign exploration companies in 1998. However, Petrobras remains the only refiner. 

Petrobras shares (PETR4.SA) in intraday trading were down 0.44 percent at 44.80 reais from Wednesday's close. 
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
121	Brazil	2000	55	Corporate	"RIO DE JANEIRO, Nov 21 (Reuters) - Brazil's state oil giant Petrobras must make a public share offer to delist its gas station chain rather than a planned share swap, Brazil's CVM securities and exchange commission said on Tuesday. 

Petrobras said in October that it would issue 6,842,327 shares under a share swap deal to delist its 73.6-percent-owned BR Distribuidora unit and make it a wholly owned subsidiary. 
 
TD 
 It planned to swap 20,000 BR shares for 12 shares of Petrobras, leaving BR Distribuidora shareholders with 0.6 percent of Petrobras capital. Petrobras planned to approve the share swap at a general shareholders meeting on Wednesday. 

But, in a CVM statement published by the Sao Paulo Bovespa Stock Exchange earlier, the regulator said the operation must be submitted to a public offer as it was essentially a swap within the same company. 

BR shares were 1.0 percent firmer at 31.40 reais by early afternoon, while Petrobras stock was 1.0 percent firmer at 52.10 reais. BR Distribuidora shares were suspended for half-an-hour after the CVM statement was released. 

CVM superintendent of Corporate Relations Fabio Fonseca told Reuters the general shareholders meeting would be canceled and the oil company would have to make a public offering. 

""If they don't manage to delist the company (BR Distribuidora) with the public offering, they will have to reannounce the move and convene a general meeting with the exceptions of the CVM,"" he said. 

The first exception was that the two companies would have to be valued on the same day to work out their respective share prices, Fonseca said. Originally the market price was to be used in the calculation of the swap. 

The second was that BR Distribuidora minority shareholders would have the option of choosing between the value-based share price or the market stock price to sell their shares. 
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
393	Brazil	2001	59	Corporate	"SAO PAULO, Brazil, Nov 29 (Reuters) - Brazilian mining firm Compania Vale do Rio Doce (CVRD) said on Thursday it would sign a letter of agreement with Chilean copper miner Codelco to study the development of joint copper production and processing projects. 

CVRD, the world's largest producer of iron ore, said in a letter to the Sao Paulo Stock Exchange that a new co-owned company could be created under the agreement. 
 
TD 
 The joint venture would be managed independently and could become ""the preferred vehicle to strengthen the international expansion of Codelco and CVRD in the copper industry."" 

Chile's state-owned Codelco is the world's No. 1 producer of copper. 

The announcement comes about a week after Phelps Dodge Corp. pulled out of a joint venture with CVRD to develop the Sossego copper project, which would be Brazil's first world class copper mine. 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
172	Brazil	2009	60	Corporate	"BRASILIA, Oct 20 (Reuters) - Brazil will unveil a 10 billion reais ($5.74 billion) plan by late November to extend broadband Internet access nationwide and plans to auction the rights to two radio frequencies early next year, the country's powerful communications minister told Reuters on Tuesday.

President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, who sees broadband access as a fundamental tool for the country's economic development, wants the first part of the plan implemented before he leaves office at the end of 2010.

Currently only 5.2 percent of Brazil's population has access to broadband, compared with 8.8 percent in Chile and Argentina, according to market intelligence company IDC.

Communications Minister Helio Costa said in an interview that he favors a public-private partnership to meet a target of providing broadband access across the country within five years.

""The government doesn't have a company able to run a business of this size,"" Costa said.

His plan could benefit not only more than 40 Brazil-based telecom and broadband companies but also their suppliers. The bulk of the investment would go into infrastructure, such as antennas, satellite dishes and imported fiber-optic cables.

Other members of the government working on the proposal want a public company to take charge but Costa said the lack of expertise and funding would delay the project.

Under Costa's proposal, the government would provide tax incentives, low-cost financing and negotiate international partnerships for private companies to take the lead.

He was confident Lula would choose the public-private model, which takes advantage of the private sector's existing infrastructure.

BIDS

The government is working to hold two bidding rounds in the first quarter of next year for telecommunications frequencies that several private companies have been demanding.

The administration was hoping to tender the WiMax frequency used for broadband access as well as the 450 MHz frequency it wants used for rural cellular telephones, Costa said.

The government was trying to resolve a problem caused by interference between the 3.5 GHz WiMax frequency and C-band television used by 20 million viewers.

""We are fixing these problems in order to carry out a tender,"" Costa said.

Separately, a likely acquisition of Brazilian telecommunications company GVT would be a good deal for the country, he added.

""It will drive competition, I don't see an anti-trust problem,"" Costa said.

French media conglomerate Vivendi and Spain's Telefonica have both made offers to buy GVT, a broadband and telecoms company. (Reporting by Raymond Colitt; Editing by Maureen Bavdek, Phil Berlowitz)
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
145	Brazil	2007	69	Corporate	"SAO PAULO, Aug 1 (Reuters) - Brazil's coffee development fund, Funcafe, will auction a further 400,000 60-kg bags of coffee from government stocks by the end of 2007, the agriculture ministry said on Wednesday. 

The auctions are expected to increase by up to 200 million reais ($106 million) Funcafe's working capital, which is used to extend credit lines to the sector to pay for crop upkeep, harvest, storage and sales, said Lucas Ferreira, the director of the ministry's coffee department. 
 
TD 
 From January through July, the ministry auctioned 635,000 bags of coffee from government stockpiles. 

""The additional 400,000 bags should be offered in 10 auctions by December -- two per month, with an offer of 40,000 bags in each auction,"" Ferreira said, adding that he expected the price per bag to reach 200 reais. 

The next public auction of government stocks is set for Aug. 8. 

In 2006, the ministry sold 1.169 million bags through Funcafe auctions, bringing in 204 million reais. The average price was 174.52 reais per bag. 

Ferreira forecast Funcafe working capital to reach 2.56 billion reais in 2008. 

 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
472	Brazil	1999	76	Corporate	"BRASILIA, Oct 27 (Reuters) - Brazil said late Tuesday that MCI WorldCom can return to the government long distance carrier Embratel , which it bought at a privatisation auction last year, if it refuses to pay back taxes and fines. 

Last month, the federal tax agency announced Embratel owes 1.3 billion reais ($650 million) in back taxes and fines for not paying income tax prior to the firm's privatisation last July. 
 
TD 
 In the face of MCI WorldCom's resistance, Communications Minister Joao Pimenta da Veiga said Tuesday that the government is sending the case to legal authorities and warned that MCI can always return Embratel instead of paying the taxes. 

""If Embratel has doubts about the ethical behaviour of the Brazilian government it can always propose the undoing (of the contract) and the government will accept,"" he told reporters. 

Embratel, which was bought by MCI WorldCom for 2.65 billion reais during the mega-sale of the state-owned Telebras, claims payment of the taxes and fines was not part of its purchase agreement and should therefor be assumed by the government.
 
"	1	2	1	3	0	1			1	2.5
475	Brazil	1993	83	Political	"BRASILIA, Nov 22 (Reuter) - A widening Brazilian congressional inquiry into corruption charges carries the threat of ""McCarthyism,"" the head of the investigating panel warned. 

Committee President Sen. Jarbas Passarinho met Attorney General Aristides Junqueira to discuss seizing property illegally gotten by more than 30 leading politicians in an alleged multimillion-dollar bribery network linked to budget allocations. 
 
TD 
 ""We have to be careful this here doesn't become a kind of McCarthyism,"" said Passarinho, who has complained that some panel members were using it to harm political opponents. 

""This is not a Stalinist or Hitlerite court. We have to be careful that things are done through the justice system."" 

Junqueira said property illegally gained should be seized and taken over by the government. He asked Passarinho that committee documents such as legislators' bank records be turned over to federal attorneys for investigation. 

The panel has concentrated on hearing testimony from federal lawmakers, but is weighing calling three governors and the heads of several businesses to testify about the alleged bribery scheme, O Estado de Sao Paulo newspaper reported. 

They include Federal District Gov. Joaquim Roriz and representatives of the Andrade Gutierrez and Norberto Odebrecht construction corporations, the daily said. 

Folha de Sao Paulo newspaper reported that up to 16 senators and deputies could be expelled from Congress as a result of the inquiry. 

Congressional leaders would expel the members to guarantee that constitutional reform be carried out without complaints that corrupt lawmakers were involved, the daily said. 

The government of President Itamar Franco and business leaders see reform as vital to helping stabilise the economy and curb inflation, now 35 percent a month. 

The allegations and month-old inquiry nearly have paralyzed the government, stalled constitutional reform, raised questions about Brazil's strength as a democracy and damaged the reputations of a growing number of prominent politicians. 
 
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
160	Brazil	1999	87	Political	"RIO DE JANEIRO, Nov 13 (Reuters) - Flamengo sacked former Brazil international Romario on Saturday for going to a nightclub the day after his team were knocked out of the Brazilian championship. 

President Edmundo Santos Silva said Romario, who led Brazil's 1994 World Cup winning side, had been sacked after leaving the team hotel against orders the day after a 3-1 away defeat to Juventude in Caxias do Sul, southern Brazil on Wednesday. 
 
TD 
 ""He went to a nightclub to have a good time while millions of fans were crying at home,"" said Silva. 

""The Romario era has finished, against my will. My heart is very sad at this, bleeding and crying."" 

The player is known for his love of nightlife and once said that he plays better after a good night out. 

Wednesday's result meant that Flamengo failed to finish in the top eight of the championship. 

However, they remained in the south for another match on Saturday in a consolation tournment, whose winners could have a chance to play in next year's South American Libertadores Cup. 

Romario, who first joined the Rio de Janeiro club in 1995, confirmed on returning to Rio airport that he was no longer wanted at the club which claims to be the best supported in the country. 

KICKED OUT 

""From what I know, I've been kicked out because I went out for the night,"" he said tersely. 

It was not clear whether Flamengo, who are widely reported to owe their star player more than one million dollars in wages, would sell the 33-year-old or simply leave him on the sidelines. 

Romario remains one of the world's most gifted players but his brilliant career has been interspersed with similar incidents, at Flamengo, other clubs abroad and with the Brazil national team. 

One month ago, he was fined by Flamengo for missing training. Romario claimed he had an agreement which allowed him to skip any sessions held on the day after a match, but the club directors disagreed. 

In the last year, he has been snubbed by Brazil national team coach Wanderley Luxemburgo, who lost a tug-of-war with Romario when he coached Flamengo four years ago. 

Luxemburgo insisted Romario be punished for missing training, but club directors failed to take action. 

Luxemburgo has called up Romario only once in his year and three months in charge of Brazil, even though the player continues to score regularly for his club. 

Romario was Flamengo's top scorer in this year's Brazilian championship with 12 goals in 21 games. 

 
"	1	5	1	5	0	4			1	5
182	Brazil	2006	87	Political	"SAO PAULO, Brazil, Oct 6 (Reuters) - Brazilian low-cost carrier Gol said on Friday one of its airplanes slid off the runway at Sao Paulo's Congonhas domestic airport but no passengers were hurt. 

Gol's flight 1941 from Cuiaba in Mato Grosso state landed at the Sao Paulo airport at 6:05 a.m. local time (0505 EDT/1005 GMT), sliding up to a grassy area, where it stopped. A Gol spokesman said the airplane skidded off the runway because of light rain. 
 
TD 
 ""There were no problems for passengers, who were all taken from the plane later,"" the Gol spokesman said. 

Sao Paulo's domestic airport, the busiest in Brazil, halted all landing and takeoffs briefly while Gol's airplane was removed from the runway. 

A Boeing 737-800 belonging to Gol crashed over the Amazon jungle last week, killing all 154 people onboard. 
 
"	1	1	1	2	0	1			1	1.5
346	Brazil	2007	87	Political	"SAO PAULO, Brazil, Aug 20 (Reuters) - Coffee growers in south Minas Gerais, Brazil's principal arabica coffee growing state, fear that rain-triggered early flowering followed by dry weather may hurt the 2008/09 crop, agronomists said. 
 
TD 
 Widespread rains in the region in July set off early flowering and coffee fruit buds will need more rain by September to keep them from from aborting and falling off. Brazil's rainy season, however, often doesn't start until October or November. 

Meteorologists have said that the rains may even be later than usual this season due to the effects of La Nina, or the cooling of Pacific Ocean surface temperatures. 

The early flowering will also create an irregular harvest, which typically results in the deterioration of quality of the beans as some branches hold both green immature fruit as well as ripe coffee cherries, complicating harvest. 

""We know that no rain is forecast through August and it is the driest period of the year. We're going to root for September rains that will set the flowering,"" said Joaquim Goulart de Andrade, technical manager at Cooxupe, Brazil's largest coffee cooperative. 

Daniel Carneiro Beraldo, of Cooparaiso -- the No.2 coffee cooperative in Brazil in south Minas, said that even though coffee trees have multiple flowerings, if the initial flowering aborts the next crop will be seriously affected. 

""If current conditions continue through September or into October, it will be very serious,"" he said. ""The soil is moist but if it doesn't rain in 15 to 20 days the flowers will probably abort, or part of them."" 

HARVEST 

The current harvest that is winding down is a seasonally smaller crop. Coffee tree output in Brazil goes through a natural biennial cycle, producing a big crop followed by a small crop. 

The Agriculture Ministry put the current crop at around 32 million 60-kg bags in April and is due to adjust its forecast on Friday. Last season Brazil harvested a 42.5 million bag crop. 

Carry over stock from the current harvest until the new harvest begins in May 2008 are expected to be extremely low due to the smaller crop. Any disruption in the output of next year's crop could cause world coffee prices to react abruptly, analyst said. 

 
"	1	3	1	3	0	2			1	3
139	Canada	2004	1	Political	"TORONTO, Dec 23 (Reuters) - Nearly a year after he was the victim of a brutal on-ice attack, National Hockey League player Steve Moore said on Thursday he still cannot lead a normal life and his lawyer said Moore had been ""ambushed"" a second time by the court sentencing of his attacker, NHL star Todd Bertuzzi. 

A day after Bertuzzi, of the Vancouver Canucks, pleaded guilty to assaulting Moore during a March 8 NHL game, Moore's lawyer, Tim Danson, lashed out at the Vancouver courts for not allowing the Colorado Avalanche forward the opportunity to confront his attacker and read his victim statement to the court. 
 
TD 
 The court gave Bertuzzi a conditional discharge, making him pay a C$500 ($407) court services fee and perform community service. The plea bargain deal should allow the all-star power forward to apply to the NHL to lift his indefinite suspension. 

The sentence will leave Bertuzzi, 29, one of the NHL's top players, without a criminal record if he does not break the law in the next 12 months. He could have received up to 18 months in prison if the case had gone to trial and he had been convicted. 

During March 8 game Bertuzzi skated up behind Moore and blindsided him with a punch to the head and toppled him to the ice, at which point several other players piled on. Moore was left with three hairline neck fractures and a concussion. 

Moore told a Toronto news conference the neck injury was ""coming along well"", but he was suffering post-concussion problems that prevent him from leading a normal life and restrict his physical activity. 

""So basically, in short, I'm just not the same person as I was but I am definitely optimistic and determined to recover fully,"" Moore said in one of his first public comments since being injured."" 

The attack gained international publicity and renewed debate over violence in North American ice hockey, where on-ice fights are almost routine despite being against the rules. 

While Moore refused to comment directly on Bertuzzi's sentence, his lawyer said he felt the punishment did not fit the seriousness of the attack, and termed his client's injuries ""life and career threatening"". 

According to Danson, Moore had remained silent throughout the police investigation, believing he would have his day court to explain the full impact Bertuzzi's attack has had on him and his family. 

Danson said he only learned of the plea bargain on Monday, which was not enough notice for Moore to get to Vancouver to attend the hearing. The trial had been scheduled to start on Jan. 17. 

""From my perspective we were ambushed (and) it couldn't have been an accident... He (Moore) had a right to face Todd Bertuzzi if he chose and let Todd Bertuzzi know what impact this has,"" said Danson. 

Dansen asked the British Columbia attorney general to investigate how prosecutors handled the entire case. 

A prosecutor told the court on Thursday that Moore had had enough time to attend the hearing, which they offered to fly him to the hearing from his home in Boston, and Dansen had declined an offer for him to appear via a video link. 

The court ruled the law did not require Moore be allowed to read his victim impact statement in person. 

Moore's six-page written impact statement was read by a prosecutor, and Provincial Court Judge Herb Weitzel called it ""very complete"" and ""heart-wrenching."" 

 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
115	Canada	2003	2	Corporate	"TORONTO, Dec 23 (Reuters) - Press baron Conrad Black's Hollinger Inc. (HLGc.TO) said on Tuesday that its auditor, KPMG LLP, had resigned after the Canadian company refused to make the management changes that KPMG demanded. 

The move came one day after Black refused to testify before U.S. regulators probing financial irregularities at Chicago-based newspaper publisher Hollinger International Inc. (HLR.N), Hollinger Inc.'s main subsidiary. 
 
TD 
 Black resigned as chief executive of Hollinger International last month after an investigation uncovered $32 million in ""non-competition"" payments made to Black and other managers that were not authorized by the board. 

But Black, a member of the British House of Lords, remains chief executive of the Toronto-based holding company. 

Hollinger Inc. holds 72.6 percent of the voting control and 30.3 percent of the equity of Hollinger International Inc., which in turn owns London's Daily Telegraph, the Chicago Sun-Times and the Jerusalem Post. 

Last month four members of Hollinger Inc.'s board of directors and audit committee resigned after a meeting in which recommendations on management and board changes were defeated by a vote of the full board. 

Hollinger Inc. said in a statement on Tuesday it was told by KPMG the auditor would quit unless the company made ""changes to management"" similar to those undertaken at Hollinger International. 

""The board concluded that until it receives the results of the special audit and independent counsel investigation, making personnel changes of the type made by Hollinger International Inc. would be premature, unfair to the individuals concerned and legally unjustifiable,"" Hollinger said. 

KPMG Canada spokesman Gordon Braun-Woodbury told Reuters the firm would not comment beyond what was said by Hollinger. 

Late Tuesday, Hollinger International said KPMG is continuing in its role as the company's auditor. It said it ""appreciated KPMG's recognition of the remedial actions the company had taken, including changes to management."" 

Hollinger Inc. also said on Tuesday that Daniel Colson has resigned as a director and vice-chairman to focus his full attention on Hollinger International, where he is also vice-chairman, as well as chief operating officer and a director. 

In addition, Colson is chief executive of the Telegraph Group in Britain, which published the Daily Telegraph. 

Hollinger Inc. also said that on Dec. 17 CanWest Global Communications Corp. (CGSa.TO) issued a claim against the Hollinger group and Black's closely held Ravelston Corp. for about C$25 million ($18.9 million). The suit relates to an agreement made in 2001 to transfer to CanWest the 50 percent of the National Post newspaper it didn't already own. 

""Although named as a defendant, Hollinger believes that the claim against it is without merit and intends to defend the claim vigorously,"" it said. 

Hollinger Inc. warned in a filing with Canadian regulators earlier this month it is facing a cash crunch that could force it to default on some of its debt and sell assets. ($1=$1.32 Canadian) (Additional reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York.). 
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
232	Canada	1990	5	Corporate	"TORONTO, Nov 30, Reuter - Bell Canada, the telephone operating arm of BCE Inc, said it would reduce its long-distance rates by more than 900 million dollars between 1992 and 1996 under a new business plan it has filed with the Canadian government regulatory agency. 

(Corrects to 900 million dollars from 90) 
 
TD 
 Rate reductions of up to 60 pct would be offered to those who used long distance the most, through new services and price packages. Medium volume users would have reductions of up to 40 pct, Bell Canada president Jean Monty said in notes prepared for a press conference. 

Monty said local telephone rates would not rise except for increases in some centres due to population growth and wider local calling areas. 

Beyond 1996, any further long distance rate reductions would be extended to all users of the service, he said. Bell's plan would make long distance rates for medium to large users comparable to those available in the United States. The rate reduction would be achieved by improved use of the network, Monty said. 

Monty said if Unitel Telecommunications Inc, the jointly-owned telephone services company of Canadian Pacific Ltd and Rogers Communications Inc was succesful in its bid to get into the long distance telephone market the cost of Bell's rate plan would increase by four billion dollars over 10 years. 
 
"	1	3	1	4	0	-1			1	3.5
357	Canada	2005	6	Political	" TORONTO, Dec 23 (Reuters) - A Canadian man accused of supplying weapons to al Qaeda and conspiring to kill Americans abroad was denied bail by a Canadian court on Friday after the judge said the network could help him flee the country. 

Abdullah Khadr, 24, is being held in Canada on an extradition warrant from the United States. 
 
TD 
 He is the eldest son of Ahmed Said Khadr, who was an alleged al Qaeda financier and a close friend of Osama bin Laden. His brother Omar Ahmed Khadr is the only Canadian held at the U.S. prison camp at Guantanamo Bay. 

""Mr. Khadr has high-level links to al Qaeda, a terrorist organization without scruples, ...and with wide-ranging networks throughout the world they could well assist him in escaping this jurisdiction,"" Justice Anne Molloy said in her ruling. 

""This is not a person I would trust to abide by conditions of his release."" 

Khadr faces charges in the United States of conspiracy to murder Americans outside the country and of buying weapons for groups linked to bin Laden's al Qaeda network. He could face a life sentence if convicted. 

Khadr's lawyer, Dennis Edney, had asked the court to bail Khadr into the custody of his grandparents where he would be under 24-hour supervision except for things like medical treatment or to see legal counsel or attend a mosque. 

But Justice Molloy said evidence that Khadr has access to a false passport created the risk that he would flee Canada. 

Khadr is scheduled to return to court on Jan. 10. He was arrested last weekend, just two weeks after returning to Canada from Pakistan. 

He said he was tortured in a Pakistani prison where he was detained without charges from October 2004. 

Khadr's teenage brother Omar has been a prisoner at Guantanamo since 2002 and will face a trial by a U.S. military tribunal for murder. 

Another brother, Abdurahman Khadr, was also a prisoner at the U.S. base, but he was freed and has told Canadian media he had been asked to work for the CIA. 
 
"	2	5	3	5	2	0	1	1	2.5	5
59	Canada	2007	7	Political	"TORONTO, Dec 21 (Reuters Life!) - It's known as the ""Body Farm,"" a three-acre plot of land in Tennessee surrounded by a chain-link fence and filled with more than 1,000 human corpses and skeletons. 
 
TD 
 Created in 1980 by forensic anthropologist Bill Bass, the farm is the University of Tennessee's Forensic Anthropology Research Facility which is devoted to studying human decomposition to help solve criminal cases. 

Bass, 79, described the farm, which has been the inspiration for several books including the recently released ""Beyond the Body Farm"" that he co-authored, as a collection of corpses in various states of decay. 

Bodies in black disaster bags scattered on a hillside, submerged in water or covered with dirt and concrete are part of the university's experiments to provide information about how bodies decompose under various conditions to determine things like time of death and scents that cadaver dogs can pick up. 

""Normally we don't leave a body out there longer than a year because then the sun begins to bleach them and they'll crack,"" Bass, who has retired from teaching but is still active in research, explained in a telephone interview. 

The bodies are donated by the coroner as well as people who have willed their remains to the facility. 

""We are getting more bodies now that we're doing research on,"" said Bass, who has also asked the university to build a $1 million processing facility down the road. 

Bass said one of the reasons he started the farm was to study maggot-covered bodies, which are harder to identify. 

""The zippers (on the bags) will be open so the flies can get in but the bodies are in the dark all the time and the maggots do a remarkable job,"" Bass explained. 

""They eat all the soft tissue away and we get to the stage where we want to clean that skeleton up and put it in the collection."" 

Asked if he ever gets disturbed by being around so much death, Bass replied, ""I have lost two wives to cancer. I hate death. I hate mourning. I hate funerals. 

""But it's interesting that I never see a forensic case as a dead body. I see a forensic case as a puzzle. Do I have the ability to look at that individual and figure out who they were and what happened to them."" 

Later this year Bass will take part in the exhumation of Harry Houdini to test a theory that the famed escape artist died from poisoning. 
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
1	Canada	2001	8	Corporate	"TORONTO, Dec 21 (Reuters) - The Canadian Broadcasting Corp. said on Friday it reached a tentative agreement with some 1,600 technicians to end a strike that has played havoc with the public broadcaster's regular programming. 

Spokesmen on both sides of the negotiations said an agreement was reached midafternoon in Ottawa. But no clues were provided as to when the staff will resume work at the government-owned broadcaster. 
 
TD 
 ""We're very happy to say that we've reached a tentative agreement, but the agreement has just been reached. More details will follow, but I don't have any right now,"" said CBC spokesman Chuck Thompson. 

Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union spokesman Mike Sullivan also confirmed the deal but said he could not yet provide details on terms and conditions. The dispute centered on wages, overtime and working conditions, 

The strike, which began in early December, disrupted programming on the English-language side of the national broadcaster, which operates both television and radio networks. 

The dispute forced management to operate cameras and audio equipment in order to keep the broadcaster functioning. Some divisions, such as its CBC Newsworld channel, relied heavily on previously broadcast documentaries and programming. 

The strike turned ugly at times, with some union members initially escorted off the job and locks changed. 

The CBC, bankrolled by the government to promote Canadian culture, has been hit hard over the past decade by stretched budgets and job cuts as Ottawa reduced funding. 

Its main rivals include the Global network, owned by CanWest Global Communications Corp. , and Bell GlobeMedia's CTV network. Bell GlobeMedia is majority owned by BCE Inc. with minority stakes held by Thomson Corp. and Toronto's billionaire Thomson family
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
133	Canada	1991	9	Corporate	"TORONTO, Dec 20, Reuter - Central Guaranty Trustco Ltd and Central Guaranty Trust Co said they have initiated action to separate the two companies. 

A. Warren Moysey was appointed new chief executive officer of Central Guaranty Trust, effective immediately. 
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
265	Canada	1999	15	Political	"TORONTO, Dec 18 (Reuters) - Doomsday religious movements awaiting an apocalypse at the turn of the century pose a threat to national security, according to a Canadian intelligence report quoted in a newspaper report on Saturday. 

In a report obtained by the National Post, the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) said that 400 of the estimated 1,200 cults around the world were predicting end-of-the-world scenarios tied to the year 2000 and may resort to violence. 
 
TD 
 The newspaper reported that the 400 doomsday cults were in Canada but CSIS spokesman Dan Lambert told Reuters that that figure applied worldwide and that just three doomsday cults had ties to Canada. 

The report, which is set to be released next week, also warned that the groups may have stockpiled weapons. About three of these cults have some ties to Canada. 

""The approaching year 2000 A.D. has stimulated millennial anxiety and heightened concern that its unfolding will bring an increase in potential threats by groups that would choose to assert their apocalyptic belief through violence,"" the report said. 

""While it is not known which cults have the potential for violence, this does not imply that possible threats posed by doomsday religious movements should be ignored, as they can quickly manifest themselves in a variety of forms."" 

The CSIS report suggested law enforcement agencies be vigilant for warning signs that a cult is preparing for the end of the world. These include ""an increase in the procurement of weapons, relocation to an isolated area, a rise in violent rhetoric or an internal leadership struggle,"" it said. 

Lambert said that Canadian law enforcement authorities were ""vigilant to any potential for violence in relation to the millennium."" 

""Here in Canada, I can't say there is a specific threat at this time,"" he said. 

Canada's best-known cult, the Order of the Solar Temple, has been responsible for 74 deaths in Canada, Switzerland and France in the past five years. 

The CSIS report comes as United States and Canadian authorities looked into allegations that an Algerian-born man charged with trying to bring explosives into the United States may have been part of a millennium bombing scheme. 

Ahmed Ressam, 32, was in custody in Seattle where he was accused of attempting to transport explosive materials into the United States from Canada and making false statements to U.S. Customs officers. 

 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
135	Canada	2002	20	Corporate	"TORONTO, Dec 18 (Reuters) - Derek Pannell, Noranda's (NRD.TO) new chief executive, said on Wednesday the future growth of the company, one of the world's biggest mining companies, is in copper and nickel mines. 

The move means a shift in focus for the company that also has aluminum, zinc, lead, and precious metal operations. 
 
TD 
 Pannell, who recently returned from China, said Noranda planned to set up an office there, possibly in Shanghai, and was considering joint-venture partners with Chinese magnesium producers. 

He said fundamentals for nickel were strong and expects prices to move above Noranda's long-term forecast of $3.25 a pound in 2003. Copper prices are expected to reach 75 cents a pound in 2003, down from Noranda's long-term forecast of 90 cents, he added
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
151	Canada	2004	28	Corporate	"TORONTO, Dec 21 (Reuters) - A joint venture of the Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan Board and Sherritt International Corp. (S.TO) submitted a C$1.8 billion ($1.5 billion) bid on Tuesday that could serve as a recapitalization plan for insolvent Stelco Inc. (STEa.TO), Canada's biggest steelmaker. 

The joint venture, which calls itself Island Energy Partnership, said the plan includes the acquisition of Stelco's non-core utilities assets and a commitment to expand the coke battery at Stelco's Lake Erie facility by 500,000 tonnes. 
 
TD 
 The plan would also subscribe for new equity and would set aside a portion for Stelco's union, employees and creditors. 

Earlier in the day, Algoma Steel (AGA.TO) said it could make a takeover bid for Stelco, adding to a list of potential suitors that includes Russian steelmaker OAO Severstal (CHMF.RTS) and U.S. Steel Corp. (X.N). 

Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario-based Algoma, Canada's No. 3 steelmaker, did not provide details of how much it might offer for Stelco, or when a bid may surface. 

Shares of Stelco closed up 10 Canadian cents, or 5.4 percent at C$1.95 on the Toronto Stock Exchange, while Algoma shares slipped 85 Canadian cents, or 2.8 percent, to C$29.50. 

Sherritt rose 27 Canadian cents, or 3 percent, to C$8.94. 

In early December, a Canadian court gave the green light to a C$900 million bailout plan for Stelco from Deutsche Bank AG (DBKGn.DE) that is a benchmark other suitors for the steelmaker would have to surpass. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
439	Canada	2000	53	Corporate	"TORONTO, Dec 18 (Reuters) - Venture capitalists are on track to invest a record C$5 billion ($3.3 billion)in Canadian technology and biotechnology firms in 2000 and this torrid pace of financing is expected to continue as tax laws are relaxed and foreign investors seize opportunities. 

""It's far and away a record level of financing in the Canadian industry,"" John Eckert, president of the Canadian Venture Capital Association told Reuters on Monday. 
 
TD 
 ""This is driven by the fact that Canada is increasingly being viewed as an outstanding place for information technology and life sciences investment,"" he added. 

For the first nine months of 2000 more than C$3.4 billion was invested in 1,013 financings, compared with C$2.7 billion in 989 deals in the full year in 1999, the CVCA said. 

About two-thirds of the transaction volume and dollar value in the third quarter involved companies in their second or third stage of funding that require ever larger sums of money to accelerate development programs, said the CVCA. 

Eckert said funding levels should rise as investors reap the rewards of their investments, and clusters of high technology companies spawn start-ups. 

BioChem Pharma Inc. H.TO), which was recently acquired by Shire Pharmaceuticals, and QLT Inc. are widely regarded as sowing the seeds of what is now a cluster of biotechnology companies in Montreal and Vancouver. 

Foreign investors contributed about C$1.6 billion, or 46 percent, of all the distributions in the first nine months of 2000, beating by 60 percent the C$1 billion invested by foreigners in the first nine months of 1999. 

Internet companies attracted the largest share of investment at 20 percent of the total, while life sciences firms garnered 17 percent of all investment dollars. 

The Canadian federal government recently lowered the capital gains tax inclusion rate to 50 percent from 66.6 percent, and has proposed improving tax rollover provisions, which combined should bolster interest in investing in early stage technology companies, Eckert said. 

Proposed changes to the tax rollover provision would allow investors to take gains made on one private equity deal and invest these dollars into another private firm without incurring taxes. 

 
"	1	4	1	3	0	1			1	3.5
492	Canada	2000	59	Corporate	"TORONTO, Dec 18 (Reuters) - C.I. Fund Management said on Monday its offer for Mackenzie Financial Corp. will not be extended past its deadline of midnight Dec. 22 if Mackenzie's poison pill plan is still in place. 

Last month, C.I. launched a hostile C$3.9 billion takeover bid for rival Mackenzie. It offered C$28.25 cash per Mackenzie share, but limited the total amount it would pay in cash to C$600 million. It also offered the alternatives of 1.7 common shares of C.I. for each Mackenzie share, or a combination of cash and shares for each share of Mackenzie. A successful takeover would create Canada's largest independent mutual fund company. 
 
TD 
 Mackenzie's management and board of directors have unanimously rejected the bid from the outset and have been searching for a white knight bid, though C.I.'s offer is the only one currently on the table. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
364	Canada	1996	61	Corporate	"TORONTO, Nov 21 (Reuter) - Trizec Hahn Corp on Thursday said it had acquired a 100 percent stake in the Allen Center in Houston, Texas from Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. 

The price of the acquisition was not disclosed. 
 
TD 
 Toronto-based Trizec said the 18-acre complex includes three office towers ranging from 34 to 50 stories totalling 3.2 million square feet. 

Trizec also owns the nearby Cullen Center complex in Houston and now owns and manages over six million square feet of office space in the city. 

The company said the Allen Center complex is expected to make an immediate positive contribution to cash flow from operations and that long-term financing has been provided by MetLife. 

The purchase of the Allen Center is the first major acquisition by Trizec Hahn since the company was created by the merger of Trizec Corp Ltd and Horsham Corp on November 1. 

The new entity is one of North America's largest publicly traded real estate companies with about US$6 billion in assets and a real estate portfolio valued at about US$3.5 billion. 

Trizec Hahn also holds a 46.2 percent interest in St. Louis-based Clark USA and a 15.7 percent stake in Toronto-based Barrick Gold Corp, North America's largest gold producer. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
74	Canada	2001	64	Corporate	"TORONTO, Dec 14 (Reuters) - CP Ships Ltd. said on Friday it would no longer go ahead with plans to buy a Danish shipping line, just one month after the company said the purchase would have boosted its presence in Latin America. 

The London-based former unit of conglomerate Canadian Pacific Ltd., one of the world's top 10 container shippers, said the deal to purchase Nordana Line from Dannebrog had been called off. 
 
TD 
 ""In the month since the acquisition plan was announced on Nov. 14, further discussions revealed a number of issues that prevented the transaction from being completed to both parties' satisfaction,"" CP Ships said in a release. 

Terms of the deal would have included Nordana's fleet of containers, as well as the time charter of three ships owned by Dannebrog. 

Shares of CP Ships were up 20 Canadian cents or 1.2 percent, at C$16.70 on the Toronto Stock Exchange on Friday afternoon. 

($1=$1.56 Canadian). 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
318	Canada	1992	68	Political	"TORONTO, Oct 7, Reuter - A survey by Gallup Canada has revealed that 41 pct of Canadians intend to vote ""no"" in the October 26 unity referendum, an increase of 12 percentage points from a September poll. 

The Canadian polling agency said the number of voters planning to support Canada's constitutional reform package is virtually unchanged at 41 pct against 42 pct in September. 
 
TD 
 A total of 18 pct remain undecided. 

Quebec opposition to the accord has slipped slightly, with 46 pct planning to give it the thumbs down against 48 pct a month ago, Gallup said. Backing for the deal in Quebec stands at 32 pct with 22 pct undecided. 

The ""no"" side is gaining momentum in the Prairie provinces. A majority, 51 pct, of Manitoba and Saskatchewan residents said they will oppose the deal -- a 15 percentage point increase over the prior month. Prairie support stands at 36 pct with 13 pct of voters uncertain. 

British Columbia voters show the strongest disapproval of the deal with 53 pct planning a ""no"" vote. 

Only 30 pct of British Columbia residents support the accord while 17 pct could vote either way. 

A majority of Ontario and the Atlantic province adults feel the unity deal is good for Canada. Half of Ontario voters surveyed plan to back the deal while 33 pct will oppose it. About 17 pct of Ontarians remain undecided. 

The accord finds most support in the Atlantic provinces where 53 pct of voters said they would throw their weight behind it. Just 30 pct intend to vote ""no"" while 17 pct are uncertain. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
319	Canada	1991	71	Political	"TORONTO, Aug 6, Reuter - Top seed Gabriela Sabatini served notice at the 500,000-dollar Canadian Open women's tennis championship on Tuesday that she has reached peak form as she prepares to defend her U.S. Open title later this month. 

The Argentine world number three was only taken to deuce once as she destroyed Silvia Farina of Italy 6-0 6-0 in a 52-minute second round stroll. 
 
TD 
 Second-seeded Swiss Manuela Maleeva-Franiere, the eldest of three Maleeva sisters in the draw, had a slightly tougher time. She survived a shaky first set, then rolled into the third round with a 7-5 6-0 win over Rika Hiraki of Japan. 

Maleeva-Franiere found herself serving to stay in the first set at 4-5. But she held for 5-5 and did not lose another game. 

""When I was down 5-4 I realised I better go for all my shots and go to the net. I didn't want to let her have another chance,"" Maleeva-Fragniere said. 

The youngest Maleeva, Magdalena, won her first round match when American Andrea Leand was forced to retire with a foot injury after the Bulgarian won the first set 6-1. Magdalena must face her fourth-seeded sister Katerina in a second round match on Wedneaday. 

Other seeds to reach the third round included sixth seed Helena Sukova of Czechoslovakia, who beat Sweden's Maria Strandlund 7-6 6-4, and eight-seeded American Amy Frazier, a 7-5 6-3 winner over Australian Nicole Provis. 

Canada's number one, Helen Kelesi, seeded 11th, defeated Japan's Kimiko Date 6-4 6-4 to earn the privelege of becoming Sabatini's likely next victim. 

Sabatini's confidence was clear at her post-match interview. 

""I think I played perfect today. I did everything right,"" she said. ""I think I can win this tournament."" 

In evaluating her capabilities, Sabatini served warning to her higher-ranked rivals, Steffi Graf and Monica Seles. 

""The three of us at the top of the rankings are closer than ever now,"" she said. ""But if I keep playing like this I think I can be number one."" 
 
"	5	1	5	1	0	0			5	1
379	Canada	1992	75	Corporate	"TORONTO, Dec 17, Reuter - Royal Bank of Canada said it cut its prime lending rate to 8.00 pct from 8.25 pct, making the third such cut in three days. 

Earlier, the Bank of Montreal and the Toronto Dominion cut their prime rate to eight pct. Major Canadian banks dropped their prime rates to 8.25 pct on Wednesday from 8.50 pct, and on Tuesday from 8.75 pct. 
 
TD 
 Prime lending rates at the other three major chartered banks remain at 8.25 pct. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
209	Canada	1993	96	Political	"TORONTO, Oct 7 (Reuter) - Fugitive Somali warlord General Mohamed Farah Aideed's wife is being investigated by Canadian authorities for possible violations of immigration law, officials said on Thursday. 

While her husband is on the run from United Nations peacekeapers in Somalia, Khadiga Gurham, 35, is living on government handouts in a sparsely furnished home in the southwestern Ontario city of London. 
 
TD 
 Gurham arrived here in 1991 as a refugee and is now a landed immigrant, but returned to her homeland last year. 

""We have been looking at the possibility that by returning to Somalia she could have jeopardised her refugee status,"" a spokesman for Canada's immigration department said. 

He said Gurham was also under investigation by police and welfare authorities over allegations of welfare fraud, which could also put her refugee status at risk. 

Refugee status is granted when there is a well-founded fear of persecution based on race, religion, ethnic origin or political opinion. At the time Gurham was allowed into Canada, Aideed was in opposition in Somalia, the spokesman said. 

The Toronto Sun newspaper reported on Thursday that Gurham has lived with her four children in London for two months and spends her days watching news network CNN for the latest developments on Aideed. 

She and her family were moved by welfare officials from an apartment in a Toronto suburb after intense media scrutiny and pressure from followers of rival warlords, it said. 

""I don't like to live on welfare. It's shameful,"" Gurham told the Sun. ""But my husband has no money. He's a rebel."" 

Gurham married Aideed in 1984 and for the next four years they lived in India, where her husband was posted as his country's ambassador, the paper said. 

The report said a large Somali flag was draped across a wall, decorated with pictures of her family and husband. A sofa and television were the only furniture. 

""Canada is my children's country,"" Gurham was quoted as saying. ""I talk to them in Somali and they answer in English."" 

 
"	4	5	4	5	0	0			4	5
146	China	1994	4	Corporate	"BEIJING, Nov 30 (Reuter) - Nanning, capital of the China's southwest region of Guangxi, is holding its first auction of state-owned land-use rights, offering 18 prime city sites to investors, the Financial News said. 

Investors from Malaysia, Thailand, Singapore, Canada, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan are bidding for rights to a 5,400 square metre site in the Jiangnan district, it said. 
 
TD 
 Thirteen further state-owned sites, 45 projects for real estate development or co-operation and seven projects for construction of urban infrastructure are offered for sale, it said
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
243	China	1995	8	Political	"BEIJING, Nov 29 (Reuter) - China named a six-year-old ""soul boy"" called Gyaicain Norbu as Tibet's new Panchen Lama on Wednesday, challenging the Dalai Lama's selection, but the exiled Tibetan leader said he could not change his choice. 

In a faxed statement, the Dalai Lama, the Himalayan region's god-king, said he had fulfilled all the necessary religious procedures with great care and had determined his selection, Gedhun Choekyi Nyima, as the reincarnation of the Panchen Lama, the second-holiest figure in the Tibetan Buddhist hierarchy. 

""Therefore, my recognition of the Panchen Lama's reincarnation cannot be changed,"" he said. 

Beijing's naming of the boy left Tibetan Buddhism with rival Panchen Lamas -- one blessed by the Dalai Lama and one sanctioned by the atheist communist government. 

The anti-China Tibetan government-in-exile swiftly condemned the move, while Beijing launched a nationwide publicity drive to hammer home its soul boy's legitimacy. 

Gyaincain Norbu was picked as the 11th incarnation of the Panchen Lama in a drawing of lots from a gold urn in the Tibetan capital Lhasa, the official Xinhua news agency said. 

The Dalai Lama had announced in May his own recognition of Gedhun Choekyi Nyima as the recipient of the spirit of the 10th Panchen Lama, who died in January 1989. 

Both selections are six years old. 

In his statement, the Dalai Lama said he had appealed in October to China's President Jiang Zemin to extend the Chinese government's recognition to his choice. ""It is unfortunate that the Chinese government has chosen to politicise this issue and to appoint a rival Panchen Lama,"" he added. 

In order to promote religious legitimacy, they ""coerced senior Tibetan lamas and monks"" to take part in a conference in Beijing under tight security and strict secrecy, he said. 

He said Gedhun Choekyi Nyima has not been seen in public for some months and was reported to be in detention somewhere in China. He appealed to governments, religious and human rights groups to intervene to ensure the safety and freedom of the boy. 

China intensified a drive to justify its strategy, using state television to show young Gyaincain Norbu in saffron robes seated among lamas and Communist Party officials beside the urn from which Xinhua said his ""lucky number"" was drawn. 

Xinhua mounted a personal attack on the Dalai Lama's soul boy, saying his drowning of a dog was a ""heinous crime in the eyes of Buddha"" that made him ineligible to be a top lama. 

The news agency published a commentary that will appear in the People's Daily on Thursday which contained a scathing attack on the Dalai Lama. ""What he (the Dalai Lama) has done is utterly illegal and invalid"", in naming his own Panchen Lama, it asked. 

""Tibet's stability and the normal order of Tibetan Buddhism sect can only be secured with an overt struggle against Dalai and by rooting out his influence,"" it said. 

""There is no room for compromise with Dalai on what is good for the nation, the unity among ethnic groups and the unification of the state,"" it added. 

The Dalai Lama's choice had emerged from a state-sanctioned search by senior lamas and was expected by many to be approved by China. But his unilateral announcement enraged Beijing. 

China rejected the boy and denounced the Dalai Lama as a traitorous ""splittist"" who defied Buddhist tradition by failing to seek Beijing's approval and sought only to destabilise Tibet in his quest for Tibetan independence. 

China maintains it has the final say over senior lamas under a 1792 agreement with the imperial Qing dynasty. Tibetan exiles dispute this, saying the pact was set not with China but with occupying Manchus who were toppled in 1911. 

The 10th Panchen Lama said soon before his death that he and the Dalai Lama should approve each other's reincarnations. 

China asserted sovereignty over Tibet only after its 1949 communist takeover, sending troops to purge Tibetan ""feudalism"". The Dalai Lama and thousands of followers fled to India in 1959 after an abortive anti-Beijing uprising. 

"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
75	China	2003	11	Corporate	"BEIJING, Nov 25 (Reuters) - Dutch electronics maker Philips Electronics has set up a semiconductor venture in China with Shanghai-listed Jilin Sino-Microelectronics Co Ltd, an executive with the Chinese firm said on Tuesday. 

Sources close to Philips said on Monday such an alliance could range from development and marketing to manufacturing of special function chips. 
 
TD 
 A source familiar with the situation told Reuters initial investment could amount to tens of millions of dollars, but did not elaborate. Executives declined comment. 

""We will announce it later,"" a Jilin company executive said by telephone from the northeastern city of Jilin. She declined to give details. 

Philips Chief Executive Gerard Kleisterlee told a business group on Monday the firm would announce on Tuesday a semiconductor deal with a firm in China's northeastern region. 

The Dutch firm is Europe's largest maker of consumer electronics and lighting and number three in semiconductors. 

Kleisterlee also said Philips, which state media reported had total sales of about $6.7 billion annually in China, was intent on doubling sales in the country over the next four years. 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
60	China	1991	14	Political	"BEIJING, Nov 28, Reuter - China said on Thursday it was ""deeply concerned"" by the mob attack on leaders of the Chinese-backed Khmer Rouge in Phnom Penh, saying the violence had set back peace in Cambodia. 

""We were shocked to learn of the violent incident and are deeply concerned,"" Foreign Ministry spokesman Wu Jianmin said in a statement at a regular weekly news briefing. 

He said Wednesday's attack on Khieu Samphan and Son Sen ""has impeded the implementation of peace agreements"". 

Wu stopped short of condemning the Phnom Penh government, saying only that the international community was justified in calling on Phnom Penh to ensure the normal operation of Cambodia's Supreme National Council, a United Nations-mandated reconciliation body. 

Khmer Rouge leader Khieu Samphan fled Cambodia with his defence minister Son Sen on Wednesday after the attacks by mobs demanding revenge for the years of savage Khmer Rouge rule that ended in 1979 after Vietnamese troops invaded and installed a new government. 

The violence called into question the future of peace accords signed last month in Paris under which the warring Cambodian factions agreed to cooperate in the SNC before U.N.-sponsored elections. 

Diplomats said China was in a quandary over how to react. 

""On the one hand, they don't want to offend their Khmer Rouge friends,"" one Western envoy said. ""On the other hand they don't want to jeopordise their new-found position as a peace broker. It's a balancing act."" 

Rapprochement between China and Vietnam gave the Cambodian peace process a vital boost. 

China armed the Khmer Rouge during the Cambodian civil war and gave shelter to Prince Norodom Sihanouk, who now heads the SNC, and Beijing is forging close links with Phnom Penh Prime Minister Hun Sen. 

""The Paris agreements did not come easily,"" Wu said in his statement. ""All factions should shoulder the responsibility of implementing the agreements in all their aspects."" 

""Prince Sihanouk has time and again stressed that the Cambodian people must unite and focus their efforts on reconstruction of their homeland,"" he said later in response to a reporter's question. 

""Cambodia is now faced with the urgent task of reconstruction. It is our hope that all parties should do things towards that end,"" he said. 

In Hanoi, the Vietnamese government declined to comment on the attack on Khieu Samphan, saying only it was hoping for peace in Cambodia. 

""This is the internal affairs of Cambodia,"" a foreign ministry statement said in answer to journalists' questions. 

""The state of Cambodia has already made a statement on that question. As for Vietnam's part, it hopes Cambodia will have peace, so it can build the country,"" the ministry said. 

"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
147	China	1993	14	Corporate	"BEIJING, Nov 26 (Reuter) - Former Singapore prime minister Lee Kuan Yew attended signing ceremonies for contracts by Singapore firms in Ningbo, east China, the Economic Daily said. 

Ningbo city government agreed with China-Singapore International Pte Ltd to provide favourable investment conditions for its long-term investment plan for the city. 
 
TD 
 In a second contract, Sembawang Group agreed with Zhejiang Electricity Development Co to jointly invest in a power company in a Ningbo suburb, the paper said. 

It said that nearly 30 Singapore firms have started large-scale investment in Ningbo. 

The paper said that China-Singapore International Pte Ltd on Wednesday signed agreements with the Ningbo city government to develop the city's downtown area, a new town, an industrial zone and recreational centre. 

It also signed two agreements, each involving investment of more than 100 million yuan, with Ningbo Building Materials Investment Co and the city's Yongjiang Printing House. 

The paper said China-Singapore will invest more than $7 billion in infrastructure projects in Ningbo, but gave no more details. 

 
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
190	China	2000	36	Political	"BEIJING, Nov 14 (Reuters) - A Chinese oil tanker sank on Tuesday after colliding with a Norwegian ship at the mouth of the Pearl River between Macau and Hong Kong, the official Xinhua news agency said. 

Two crew members from the Chinese ship were missing, it said. 

The Dehang 298 was in collision the Norwegian ship Bowcecil, which was carrying chemicals, at 2:10 a.m. (1810 GMT) near the Humen bridge, it quoted the Maritime Safety Administration of China as saying. 

Dehang 298 was carrying 230 cubic metres of oil, some of which leaked into the river after the collision, the report said. 

Workers were cleaning up the slick and the government had notified authorities in the southern city of Shenzhen as well as Hong Kong and Macau, it said. 

"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
384	China	2009	37	Political	"BEIJING, Nov 23 (Reuters) - China should immediately halt some of its real estate stimulus policies, or risk inflating a bubble that in its bursting would wreak financial and even social trouble, a central bank newspaper said on Monday.

Debate is heating up in China about whether and how to wind down loose monetary policy and heavy spending, with officials voicing worries about asset price rises but also fearful that the broader economic recovery remains fragile.

An opinion piece in the Financial News, a newspaper published by the central bank, said rampant speculation in the country's property market was akin to a time bomb that could threaten future growth.

""If China does not exit its stimulus policy ... property prices and the market may go out of control,"" it said.

China's housing prices have been rising since March propelled by a slew of government measures, from lower downpayments and mortgage rates to tax cuts.

Rising prices have encouraged developers to break ground on new projects, with real estate investment up an annual 18.9 percent in the first 10 months of the year, compared with a mere 1.0 percent rise in the first two months.

While the government has welcomed this surge in building activity, which is an important pillar of the economy, some officials now worry that property development is outstripping end-user demand in some locales and that prices are not affordable for ordinary citizens.

The article noted that expectations of a wind-down in stimulus policies were, in part, driving current transaction levels. November, traditionally a slack month, had been busy as people front-loaded purchases before a value-added tax exemption expired at end of the year, it said.

Separately, a senior government researcher said that China had to place the prevention of asset bubbles at the centre of any exit strategy it devises for its broader stimulus policies.

He Fan, an economist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, a top think tank in Beijing, said if the central bank raised interest rates too early, it might only serve to suck in speculative capital from abroad and drive asset prices still higher.

But if Beijing moves too slowly to absorb the vast liquidity sloshing around the economy, asset markets will turn frothy on domestic momentum alone, in turn drawing in hot money from abroad, he said in a research note.

Targeting the exit strategy at problem spots will be the way to handle this dilemma, by, for example, suppressing property price rises or slowing the pace of loan growth, he said.

But China should not tighten its fiscal policy, according to Chen Dongqi, deputy head of the macro economic research institute under the National Development and Reform Commission, China's powerful economic planner.

"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
437	China	2008	43	Corporate	"BEIJING, Nov 13 (Reuters) - China's banking regulator, dampening thoughts that the government's big new stimulus package could prompt banks to throw caution to the winds, has instructed lenders not to loosen their credit standards.

Jiang Dingzhi, deputy head of the China Banking Regulatory Commission, told lenders that they must constantly monitor the risks of lending to any particular client or sector and ensure they are able to handle them.
 
TD 
 ""Banks must stick to what they know their bottom line is in terms of risk and make sure they avoid big risks, especially systemic risks,"" Jiang was quoted as saying by the official Financial News on Thursday.

Speaking on a visit to central Hubei province, he urged banks to closely monitor the impact of the global financial crisis on China in order to safeguard the health of the banking industry.

""Banks must make risk control even more of a priority,"" he said. ""Any problems in the running of an economy will eventually be reflected in the banking sector.""

With China's asset prices tumbling, Jiang told banks to regularly review the collateral that borrowers pledge to avoid a rebound in non-performing loans.

The cabinet confirmed the abolition of credit quotas and urged banks to lend more to support growth as it shifted to an ""appropriately easy"" monetary policy on Sunday in conjunction with the announcement of a 4 trillion yuan stimulus package.

However, economists doubt banks will rush to answer the call.

""I estimate the effect of the recent policies will not show through until the first quarter of next year,"" said Zhan Xiangyang, research head of the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China , the country's largest commercial lender.

He told the Financial News that China's big listed lenders had reached a consensus not to lend to firms that are energy intensive, pollute a lot or make over-supplied products.

Guo Tianyong, a banking professor at the Central Financial and Economic University in Beijing, told the same paper that banks would be especially cautious about lending to the property, steel, power, cement and shipping sectors, all of which are in a downturn. (Reporting by Langi Chiang; Editing by Alan Wheatley) 
 
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
236	China	2005	53	Political	"BEIJING, Nov 16 (Reuters) - China's fast growing economy and its move into higher value added industries is creating labour shortages that in some cases are slowing the expansion of foreign businesses there, executives said on Wednesday. 

""There is a management gap that will take 10 years to fill,"" said Paul Reilly, the chairman and chief executive of executive recruiter Korn/Ferry International. ""There is a huge shortage."" 

""China produces 10,000 MBAs a year, but the problem is experience,"" he told reporters on the sidelines of a conference. 

One problem is China's education system, which produces more engineers than any other country but emphasises theory rather than finding practical solutions, according to a recent report by McKinsey & Co. 

With annual economic growth exceeding 9 percent for the past nine quarters, China has the fastest growing major economy in the world. 

However, that growth has also created a sometimes desperate search for talent ranging from skilled factory workers to workers in service industries such as hotels and financial institutions. 

""We have some clients who say it is their biggest obstacle to expanding in China,"" said Greg Savage, the chief executive of Aquent Asia Pacific, a United States-based staffing and consulting firm. 

The lack of supply is pushing some salaries sky high. 

""Loyalty and company culture become secondary then someone ... is offered 50 percent more,"" said Savage. 

""It is very, very disruptive,"" he added. 

Savage tells of one client who interviewed 1,500 people over 12 months and hired only 40. The low ratio was not only because the company had high standards but also because some people offered jobs refused them. 

China's moves to develop a market-oriented economy that includes a sophisticated services industry to go along with a strong manufacturing base means that the education system also needs to produce more of the talent that companies can use. 

""If China is to avoid this talent crunch and sustain its economic ascent, it must produce more graduates fit for employment in world-class companies,"" McKinsey said in its report. 

McKinsey said that fewer than 10 percent of Chinese job candidates, on average, were suitable to work in a foreign company as engineers, accountants, quantitative analysts, life science researchers, doctors and nurses. Despite those problems, foreign companies are still pouring into China and investing billions of dollars. 

Foreign direct investment into China was $48.4 billion in the first 10 months of the year, down just 2.1 percent from a year earlier. Last year set a record high of $61 billion, more than a quarter of the total $233 billion in foreign direct investment to all developing countries. (US$=8.1 yuan) 

"	1	3	1	2	1	2			1	2.5
331	China	2007	53	Political	"BEIJING, Nov 23 (Reuters) - Some 25 sailors were missing in the South China Sea on Friday after a Philippine fishing boat capsized in rough waters, China's Xinhua news agency reported. 

The Philippine ship, numbered ""805900"", was carrying about 80 sailors when it sank near the Nansha Islands on Thursday morning in heavy winds. 

Hundreds more fisherman from China, Vietnam and the Philippines were stranded on the Nansha Islands, a group of islets, reefs and sand banks also known as the Spratly Islands, whose sovereignty is contested. 

""They are facing a danger from shortages of food and water as they await rescue,"" the Xinhua report said, citing the China Maritime Search and Rescue Centre. 

Rescue ships were on their way to the site and China's Ministry of Communications had ordered passing vessels to help search for the missing seamen. 

The ministry was also working with the Maritime Search and Rescue Centre in the southern island province of Hainan to coordinate rescue efforts and confirm the exact number of sailors aboard the Philippine ship, the report said. 

In a separate accident on Friday, a barge and a passenger ferry carrying 34 people collided in the Pearl River in the southern province of Guangdong, leaving eight missing. 

Twenty-six had been rescued, and divers were searching for the missing, Xinhua reported. 

"	1	1	1	2	0	1			1	1.5
485	China	2004	53	Corporate	"BEIJING, Nov 2 (Reuters) - China's Hainan Air (900945.SS) (600221.SS) has signed deals to buy 11 planes from Airbus (EAD.PA) (EAD.DE) and Boeing (BA.N), domestic media reported on Tuesday. 

The regional Chinese carrier controlled by global financier George Soros confirmed purchases of eight Airbus narrow-body A319 jets and three Boeing 737-800 planes, the Southern Metropolis Daily newspaper said. Hainan Air said it would use the Airbus planes to strengthen its competitiveness in China's mid-range market and make payments between 2005 and 2007, the Xinhua news agency said. 
 
TD 
 The airline, based in the sun-drenched island of Hainan, announced in June it had shareholder approval to buy five A319 planes as part of a larger acquisition of 26 aircraft, mostly from Boeing. 

 
"	1	1	1	2	1	1			1	1.5
378	China	2008	57	Corporate	"BEIJING, Nov 5 (Reuters) - Demand for corporate bonds in China is growing, not just for issuers such as banks and insurers but from retail investors as well, according to UBS' deputy head of its investment banking department in China.

With lending markets tightening and equity markets stalled, companies are seeking to issue corporate debt as a way to raise money for projects and for expansion, UBS Securities Managing Director Philip Partnow said on Wednesday.
 
TD 
 ""Companies like banks and insurers are very interested in having something other than equity as a long-term investment,"" Partnow said, speaking at the Reuters China Summit in Beijing. ""They have long term liabilities that they need to back with long term assets.""

The move to corporate bonds was especially appealing to some issuers because they found they could borrow at lower costs than a bank loan. When demand is strong, corporate bonds allow borrowers to get lower interest rates than bank loans.

To the surprise of UBS, the bank has found significant demand from retail investors, known more for piling into the stock market. ""Having been through a boom and a big deflation, there are actually some retail investors valuing the security of a high quality, income producing corporate bond,"" Partnow said.

As of late August, the issuance of corporate bonds approved by the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), which oversees issues by non-listed firms, jumped to 31 billion yuan ($4.5 billion) in July from 600 million in June. Partnow said the strongest demand for the bank's business in China was in the debt capital markets and from merger and acquisition advice.

In September 2005, UBS agreed to pay 1.7 billion yuan (US$220 million) for a 20 percent stake in Beijing Securities.

The deal allowed UBS to become the first Western bank to assume management control of a domestic mainland brokerage. Following the receipt of licenses in 2007, the newly restructured securities firm was able to conduct business in both the primary and secondary markets as well as providing wealth management services. It has about 400 employees in China.

UBS has had a strong investment banking presence throughout the last several years. In the first half of this year, UBS led the mergers and acquisitions league tables, with 53 deals worth $63.6 billion, according to Thomson Reuters data, which includes Japan and Australia.

""The big picture story hasn't changed,"" Partnow said. ""There is still an (acquisition) appetite for resources related companies.""
 

RF  
 
"	1	4	1	3	0	1			1	3.5
264	China	1994	64	Corporate	"BEIJING, Nov 20 (Reuter) - China said it had selected 10 ""low-grade"" state gold mines to pioneer the use of foreign capital and expertise in the secretive and closely held sector. 

China National Gold Corporation, the state monopoly, said the 10 mines in seven provinces each had proven reserves of 10 to 50 tonnes and prospective reserves of up to 100 tonnes. 
 
TD 
 Corporation chairman Cui Lan, quoted by the official China Daily, said all 10 were so ""low-grade or hard to dig"" that China could not exploit them without foreign expertise. 

China has been notoriously secretive about its gold extraction, refusing until this year to publish national production figures on national security grounds. 

Minister of Geology and Mineral Resources Song Ruixiang let slip in September that 1993 gold output was 90 tonnes. 

Fifteen years of market reforms have led to an erosion of state control over the increasingly chaotic sector, where thousands of freelance prospectors have fuelled a huge black market -- undermining once-reliable state supplies. 

Beijing has begun to open up the sector in the hope that a dose of market economics and advanced foreign technology will help rationalise production and restore prospecting order. 

""The world's major gold mining companies from Canada, the United States, South Africa and Australia have all come to China to inspect the mines and have shown keen interest in investing in China's gold industry through joint ventures,"" Cui was quoted as saying. 

He said low production costs would guarantee profits even though the joint-venture mines must sell all of their output to the state at a price about 10 percent below world levels. 

One such venture, Barrick Power Gold Corporation, was formed this year by the Chinese monopoly and American Barrick Resources Corp and Power Corp of Canada. 

Valued at $98 million, Barrick Power will acquire a 75 percent interest in the Paishanlou deposit in northeastern Liaoning province. The open-pit mine produces 30,000 tonnes of ore a day and has a 4,000-tonne daily milling capacity. 

Barrick also will prospect at Changkeng mine in southern Guangdong province, using its ""autoclaving"" technology to extract gold that Chinese miners have been unable to take. 

 
"	1	3	1	2	0	1			1	2.5
457	China	1995	76	Corporate	"BEIJING, Nov 17 (Reuter) - China needs far more foreign cooperation in exploring for offshore oil and gas, the official Xinhua news agency quoted a senior industry official as saying. 

China's proven offshore oil and gas reserves account for only 5.0 percent of its total offshore oil and gas resources, said Li Tianxiang, chairman of a Beijing meeting on petroleum engineering. 
 
TD 
 China estimates total offshore oil reserves at 25 billion tonnes and gas reserves at 14 trillion cubic metres, Xinhua said. 

Only by dramatically increasing Sino-foreign cooperation in the sector can China increase offshore oil and gas development, he said. 

Foreign oil firms have already invested a total of $4.7 billion in offshore exploration, and so far in 1995 foreign investment in the sector is more than $200 million, he said. 

Foreign oil firms say they are keen for China to open its onshore oil industry further to foreign exploration. 

China has sunk 363 exploratory wells and verified 88 oil and gas-bearing structures with oil and gas deposits of 1.2 billion tonnes and 180 billion cubic metres, respectively. 

In the first 10 months, offshore output of oil was 6.5 million tonnes, exceeding the figure for the whole of 1994. 

Total 1995 output is expected to exceed 8.0 million tonnes. 

Offshore oil output has increased by an annual average of 1.0 million tonnes for the past four years, Xinhua said. 

Offshore oil output is forecast to hit 12 million tonnes by 1997 with gas production at 4.0 billion cubic metres. 

By 2000, production is expected to stabilise at 10 million tonnes and six billion cubic metres respectively, it said. 

In China's fourth round of offshore bidding launched in June 1994, some 17 oil companies from the U.S., Britain, Japan, Italy, South Korea, Denmark and the Netherlands have obtained exploration rights in 10 blocks off eastern Zhejiang province. 

Under the contracts, those involved must invest $300 million in exploration and are expected to sink 51 exploratory wells. 

 
"	1	4	1	3	0	1			1	3.5
215	China	2008	77	Corporate	"BEIJING, Oct 27 (Reuters) - The bad loan ratio at China's commercial banks dropped to 5.5 percent at the end of the third quarter from 6.2 percent at the start of the year, the country's banking regulator said on Monday.

The total value of non-performing loans (NPLs) stood at about 1.27 trillion yuan ($186 billion) at the end of September, down 3 billion yuan from the start of the year, the China Banking Regulatory Commission said on its website (www.cbrc.gov.cn[http://www.cbrc.gov.cn]).
 
TD 
 Of that total, the agency classified 605.8 billion yuan in loans as a loss; 429.2 billion yuan as doubtful; and 230.2 billion yuan as substandard.

The NPL ratio at major commercial banks, which comprise major state-owned and joint-stock lenders, fell to 6.0 percent at the end of September from 6.1 percent at the end of June.

Those banks' overall non-performing loans rose slightly during the third quarter to 1.19 trillion yuan.

Beijing has spent tens of billions of dollars on capital injections for its lenders as part of an overhaul of the sector that has seen the biggest commercial banks link up with strategic investors and carry out public listings.

The government announced last week that it would inject $19 billion into Agricultural Bank of China [ABC.UL], the last of the state lenders to undergo a restructuring. [ID:nPEK327758]

Analysts have cautioned that sour loans could rebound if the property market, which has has been weakening in many cities, continues along that path.

Beijing last week announced a series of measures to help the sector, including lower downpayment requirements for purchases of first homes and lower deed taxes. (Reporting by Jason Subler; Editing by Nick Macfie)
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
154	China	2001	78	Corporate	"BEIJING, Nov 2 (Reuters) - A provincial unit of China Unicom Ltd , China's second-largest cellular carrier, has slashed mobile phone fees to win market share from its dominant rival amid fierce price competition, state media said Friday. 

China Unicom's branch in coastal Zhejiang province cut its mobile fees to 0.2 yuan per minute for calls between Unicom customers within the province, excluding the bustling city of Ningbo, official Xinhua news agency said on Friday. 
 
TD 
 That would undercut dominant rival China Mobile (HK) Ltd's prices by about half. China Mobile, the Hong Kong-listed arm of state-owned China Mobile Communications Corp, usually charges 0.4 yuan per minute. 

China Unicom officials in Hong Kong were not immediately available and operators in Zhejiang said they did not know about the new price cuts. 

Telecoms regulators, who control telecommunications tariffs in China, have given China Unicom - the Hong Kong listed arm of state-owned China Unicom Group - clearance to set prices at a discount to China Mobile's rates to balance market share. 

China Unicom had 23.36 million cellular subscribers at the end of September, compared to China Mobile's 63.77 million. 

The two firms and their parent companies boast more than 130 million cellular subscribers - the most in the world. 

China Unicom's shares have lost about 40 percent of their value in the last three months, largely because of concerns that average per user revenues were falling. 

An official at the Zhejiang telecommunications administration bureau said Unicom needed to have a a substantial discount in order to be able to compete with China Mobile, Xinhua said. 

""If it doesn't have a relatively big price advantage, it will be very hard to match up to its opponent,"" the official was quoted as saying. 

China Unicom shares were trading two percent higher at HK$7.55 on Friday morning. 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
362	China	1994	88	Political	"BEIJING, Nov 18 (Reuter) - China's Communist Party, alarmed at growing public anger about corruption in its ranks, on Friday warned its officials against collaborating with rural warlords. 

""Communist Party cadres are absolutely not allowed to breathe out of the same nostril as criminal elements. Even more so (they) must not become umbrellas protecting local despots,"" the official People's Daily said in a commentary. 

The countryside has been experiencing a serious breakdown in law and order as peasants battle to get ahead in the increasingly cut-throat ""socialist market economy"". 

Local strongmen capitalise on the breakdown in authority to become ""road bullies, village bullies, fish bullies and fruit bullies"" who monopolise resources to the extent that they become Mafia-like ""black societies"", the newspaper said. 

""The masses hate local tyrants to the bone. They have long hoped for the party and the government to deal (rural gangsters) a serious blow,"" it said. 

Official reports in the past year have said angry farmers attacked corrupt officials who enriched themselves by running their villages as personal fiefs. 

The newspaper quoted paramount leader Deng Xiaoping as saying during a trip to southern China last year that the government should crack down on crime on the one hand and continue economic reforms on the other. 

""Public security and judicial authorities must overcome all obstacles, investigate tip-offs and get to the bottom of things,"" the newspaper said. 

Fighting corruption was the ""foundation of our achieving success in (class) struggle."" 

"	1	2	1	2	0	3			1	2
176	China	1997	99	Corporate	"BEIJING, Oct 26 (Reuters) - China National Chemicals Import and Export Corp (SINOCHEM) is preparing for a domestic listing as well as a red chip share offer in Hong Kong, the China Daily Business Weekly said on Sunday. 

SINOCHEM said this month it would prefer a Hong Kong listing, after earlier considering a Singapore listing. Red chips are shares of Hong Kong-incorporated mainland-backed companies. 
 
TD 
 The Business Weekly said SINOCHEM's industrial projects were expected to be packaged into its listed subsidiaries. 

SINOCHEM is China's biggest trader, with combined imports and exports of $8.527 billion last year, accounting for 2.95 percent of China's total foreign trade. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
107	Denmark	2000	1	Political	"COPENHAGEN, Dec 24 (Reuters) - Danish opera singer Aage Haugland, a bass renowned for his performances in works by Wagner and Richard Strauss, has died of cancer at the age of 56, Danish national Ritzau agency reported Sunday. 

Haugland joined the Royal Danish Opera in 1973 and went on to perform in opera houses throughout the world. 
 
TD 
 He sang the key role of Hunding in the London Royal Opera House's production of Richard Wagner's ""Ring"" in 1976. In 1979 he made his debut at the Metropolitan Opera in New York as Baron Ochs in Richard Strauss's ""Der Rosenkavalier."" 

In Denmark, Haugland was famous for his interpretation of the operas of Danish national composer Carl Nielsen and was also a frequent performer in concert hall recitals and choral repertoire. 

He was a close friend of the late Hungarian-born British conductor Georg Solti, with whom he worked on many productions. 

 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
259	Denmark	1993	5	Political	"COPENHAGEN, Dec 7 (Reuter) - Nine west European states that pledged to halve industrial and other waste polluting the North Sea by 1995 are unlikely to meet their target, a spokesman for a ministerial meeting of the nine said on Tuesday. 

The spokesman gave the assessment on anti-pollution targets as the countries' environment and farm ministers began a two-day conference to discuss ways of reducing environmental damage caused by North Sea pollution. 
 
TD 
 The ministers were focusing mainly on problems caused by agricultural fertilisers and pesticides, as well as pollution from shipping, industrial and household waste, the spokesman said. 

Participants at the meeting were the eight nations around the North Sea -- Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Belgium, Britain, France, Germany and the Netherlands -- as well as landlocked Switzerland. Representatives of the 12-nation European Community and some 14 environmentalist organisations also attended. 

The Copenhagen session is an intermediate ministerial meeting ahead of the Fourth North Sea Conference, also to be staged in the Danish capital in 1995. 

At the Third North Sea Conference in the Hague in 1990, the nine countries vowed to halve all environmentally-damaging effluent discharged into the North Sea by 1995, but none of them seem likely to keep the target, the spokesman said. 

""The decision (to hold an intermediate session) was based on the fact that the environmental problems caused by agriculture are so extensive that it was evaluated to be necessary to meet earlier than 1995,"" a conference statement said. 

The Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF) has calculated that 700,000 tonnes of nitrogen, 30,000 tonnes of phosphate and 190,000 tonnes of other poisonous effluent end up in the North Sea annually. 

Shipping alone is responsible for polluting the North Sea with 60,000 tonnes of oil every year, other estimates show. 

 
"	1	3	1	2	0	2			1	2.5
166	Denmark	2000	9	Political	"COPENHAGEN, Dec 20 (Reuters) - Denmark's Foreign Minister Niels Helveg Petersen resigned on Wednesday, saying he could not administer Denmark's opt-outs to the European Union's Maastricht Treaty on closer cooperation. 

""I am not the right person to administer these exemptions,"" Petersen, who had been foreign minister for more than seven years, told a news conference. 
 
TD 
 ""I cannot wholeheartedly support these opt-outs which I do not consider to be in Denmark's interests after the Nice Treaty,"" agreed earlier this month. 

In 1992, Danes voted against the Maastricht Treaty, but a year later approved a tailored version of the accord after winning the right to opt-out from four areas, notably the single currency and joint defence. 

In a referendum on September 28 this year, Danes again rejected participation in the euro, which had been broadly supported by the government, industry and the financial community, by 53 to 47 percent. 

""I seriously considered resigning after the September 28 referendum but found it best to continue to work on the preparations for the Nice Treaty in December,"" Petersen said. 

He said he was satisfied with the result of the Nice summit and Denmark's role in securing a deal paving the way for the 15-nation bloc to expand by taking in new members from central and eastern Europe. 

Petersen's sudden departure was expected to trigger a major government reshuffle, probably early in the new year, political sources told Reuters. 

A general election in Denmark is due by March 2002 at the latest. 

The government said Petersen's successor would be named at the same time as a new defence minister. Current defence incumbent Hans Haekkerup was appointed in early December as U.N. chief administrator in Kosovo to succeed Frenchman Bernard Kouchner. 

Haekkerup is to take up his new post in January, 2001. 

Petersen, 61, was a former leader of the centrist Radical Liberals, junior partner in the Social Democrat-led minority government. He was given the Foreign Ministry in January, 1993, when Prime Minister Poul Nyrup Rasmussen took office. 

From 1988-1990 Petersen had been Economy Minister in a centre-right Conservative-Liberal-led administration. 
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
148	Denmark	2006	13	Corporate	"COPENHAGEN, Dec 4 (Reuters) - Three journalists at one of Denmark's largest dailies were on Monday acquitted of publishing secret Danish reports in a landmark case that pitted freedom of the press against the need to safeguard state secrets. 
 
TD 
 Berlingske Tidende editor-in-chief Niels Lunde and journalists Michael Bjerre and Jesper Larsen faced fines or prison for a series of articles in 2004 based on leaked documents from the Danish Defence Intelligence Service (DDIS) that said there was no evidence Saddam Hussein's Iraq had weapons of mass destruction. 

""We were just doing our job,"" Lunde told reporters outside the courthouse. ""This case is a matter of principle. We don't regret what we did. Even if we were convicted we would not hesitate to print this kind of information again."" 

Mogens Blicher Bjerregard, chairman of the Danish journalists' union, said: ""If the judge found in favour of the prosecution it could have caused other journalists in Europe to restrain themselves from publishing similar information."" 

The court said the intelligence agency had the right to demand that threat assessment documents be kept secret, but ruled in favour of the journalists anyway. 

""The accused have been found not guilty because the court found that they used the extended freedom of speech for the press in order to present material of public interest,"" judge Peter Lind Larsen said in his ruling. 

Global press freedom group Reporters Without Frontiers applauded the verdict. 

""It's very good news and it's the least you'd expect of Denmark, which generally has a very strong record in defending press freedom,"" said Elsa Vidal, the group's spokeswoman. 

""We also hope ... that western European countries that have this option stop seeing it as a means of exercising pressure on journalists in issues linked to politics or business."" 

The case was considered an important test of media freedom in Denmark, which earlier this year was at the centre of the Prophet Mohammad cartoon crisis. 

The prosecution argued that the public's right to know did not justify publishing the reports, while the DDIS has said the leaks have damaged its ability to cooperate with foreign intelligence organisations. Former DDIS officer Frank Grevil was sentenced to four months in prison last year for the leak. 

""It's a clear decision, important for freedom of speech and especially for freedom of the press,"" Oluf Jorgenssen, Professor at the Danish School of Journalism, told Reuters. 

The Prosecutors' office is expected to decide whether to appeal within a week. In a statement, the DDIS said it had noted the court's decision and said that the prosecution would decide whether or not to appeal the decision. (Additional reporting by Martin Dahl and James Mackenzie) 
 
"	3	5	2	4	2	2	1		2.5	4.5
112	Denmark	2006	13	Corporate	"COPENHAGEN, Dec 14 (Reuters) - Swedish bank SEB , has decided to withdraw from the retail banking market in Denmark just a year after it announced a growth strategy in the country, business daily Borsen reported on Thursday. 

SEB, Sweden's third-biggest bank by market value last year, said it had planned to open a number of retail branches in Denmark over the next five years, but tough competition had made it rethink its Danish strategy. 
 
TD 
 ""We want to concentrate on the areas were we have a particular competitive advantage, and that's in private banking,"" SEB's Henrik Nordby Christensen, head of private banking in Denmark was quoted by the paper as saying. 

The bank's two existing branches in Denmark will be restyled as private banking branches catering to wealthy Danes instead of regular retail outlets, Christensen said. 

""We're raising the bar so we only go after that (private banking) segment, and this means that we will no longer concentrate our efforts in the regular retail market,"" he said. 

Borsen said the decision to pull out of retail banking in Denmark was consistent with the message communicated by SEB at a capital markets day earlier in the week. 
 
"	1	3	2	3	1	2			1.5	3
500	Denmark	1993	14	Corporate	"COPENHAGEN, Dec 1 (Reuter) - Moody's Investor Service will maintain its Aa1 rating of the Kingdom of Denmark's long-term debt in an upcoming survey of the country's economy, a senior Moody's analyst told Reuters. 

Kristen Lindow, speaking by telephone from Moody's New York headquarters, said Denmark had not been on the observation list. 
 
TD 
 She said Moody's had no reservations about the Danish government's proposal for a fiscal easing, estimated at 12 billion crowns in 1994 and designed to spur economic growth. 

Moody's will publish its report about the Danish economy in January. ""We will maintain the Danish Aa1 rating,"" Lindow said. 

A Moody's delegation was in Copenhagen in November to evaluate the Danish economy, visiting the central bank and the finance ministry. 

 
"	4	1	4	1	0	0			4	1
491	Denmark	1992	17	Corporate	"Copenhagen, Nov 9, Reuter - Denmark's central bank said it had organised a 750 million crown safety net for the troubled Jutland-based Varde Bank. 

It said leading Danish banks Den Danske Bank, Unidanmark, Bikuben, Jyske Bank, Sydbank, Sparekassen Nordjylland and Amagerbanken had joined it in the guarantee arrangement. 
 
TD 
 Varde Bank, Denmark's tenth largest bank, reported a record pre-tax deficit of 463 million crowns for 1992's first nine months compared to a 104.5 million crown shortfall for 1991. 

The move increased Varde Bank's guarantee capital by 50 pct to around 2.3 billion crowns, it said. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
276	Denmark	1992	21	Corporate	"Copenhagen, Oct 22, Reuter - Finance for Danish Industry (FIH) said it launched a 300 million Danish crown, five year Eurobond, with Denmark's Unidanmark as lead manager. 

It said the bond was due November 20, 1997 with a 9.25 pct coupon and an issue price of 101.875. 
 
TD 
 FIH said the issue was rated AA3 by Moodys. Commissions totalled 1-7/8 pct with 1-1/4 pct selling and 5/8 pct combined management and underwriting with no praecipium. 

The issue was in 10,000 Danish crown denominations and managers were not liable, FIH added. It said there was no call except for withholding taxes and that all payments were free and clear of withholding taxes. 

FIH said the issue would open for payment on November 20, 1992, with Luxembourg listing under Luxembourg law and US and UK selling restrictions. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
323	Denmark	1993	33	Political	"COPENHAGEN, Nov 17 (Reuter) - Former foreign minister Uffe Ellemann-Jensen emerged on Wednesday from Denmark's municipal elections as undisputed leader of the centre-right opposition and a possible future prime minister. 

His Liberal Party, lifted by what media call the ""Uffe effect"", saw its share of the vote soar by 9.3 percent to 27.1 percent in Tuesday's local elections, confirming a year-long shift to the right in national opinion polls. 
 
TD 
 Prime Minister Poul Nyrup Rasmussen's Social Democrats fared better than opinion polls had expected but lost 1.1 percent to 34.3 percent of the vote. 

Ellemann-Jensen's Conservative allies, whose former leader Poul Schlueter was prime minister from 1982 until last January when a refugee scandal forced the two-party government to resign, lost 1.7 percent to hold 12.8 percent of the vote. 

The outcome set the scene for a personal duel between Ellemann-Jensen, 52, a former journalist known for his wit and hard-hitting style, and Rasmussen, 50, a pragmatic economist, in parliamentary elections due in December 1994 at the latest. 

Overall voter participation was slightly up at 68 percent in a municipal election which political analysts said could mark the beginning of a shift from a consensus-seeking eight party parliament to a polarised two-party system. 

Ellemann-Jensen, bitter about the change of government after the refugee scandal when Rasmussen convinced three small pivotal centrist parties to shift their support to him, said the local vote was a pointer for national politics. 

""The signal is that the voters found it unreasonable to switch governments without a parliamentary election,"" said Ellemann-Jensen, who played a key role in reversing Danemark's ""No"" in a second referendum last May on the Maastricht treaty on closer European union. 

Rasmussen, who has staked his government's future on a programme to fight unemployment which is at a post-World War Two high of 12.5 percent, said he was reasonably satisfied with the local ballot. 

""It shows that people are beginning to see the results of the government's policies,"" he said. 

But municipal support weakened for the Centre Democrats and the Christian People's Party -- two of three centrist partners in Rasmussen's coalition government, and political analysts said the outcome could increase internal cabinet tensions. 

The Centre Democrats and Christian People's Party share of the municipal vote declined to only 1.0 and 1.6 percent respectively, indicating they could have problems in clearing the two percent parliamentary threshold next year. 

The opposition left-wing Socialist People's Party, which is keen on forming a coalition with the Social Democrats but is not accepted as a partner by the centrist government parties, lost 1.6 percent of its municipal vote to 9.1 percent.
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
476	Denmark	2002	38	Political	"COPENHAGEN, Dec 13 (Reuters) - Prime Minister Vladimir Spidla, under pressure from an unhappy domestic audience, said on Friday that the Czech Republic would hold out for as good a deal as possible on EU entry and not bow to a looming deadline. 

Czech politicians and the media have turned up the heat on Spidla and his negotiating team after some figures showed Czechs would be one of the 10 EU candidate countries to receive the least amount of financial aid from the wealthy bloc. 
 
TD 
 At Friday's Copenhagen summit, the current 15 members are hoping to clinch a deal to expand beyond the old Iron Curtain but talks were bogged down on the issue of cash, with Poland and the Czech Republic pushing hardest for a better offer. 

""It's difficult to say what the outcome will be,"" Spidla told Reuters in an interview in the Danish capital. ""The Czech Republic is doing what it can to come to an agreement."" 

Spidla, who took little part in earlier negotiations and has only a tiny parliamentary majority, was dragged into the battle this week after it was revealed Czechs will receive only about 70 euros per head in aid in the first three years of membership. 

In comparison, wealthier Slovenia should receive some 100 euros per head of population and Poland 166 euros. 

Czech officials note that their economy is stronger and they will face no need to defend one of the EU's external frontiers. 

Spidla said he would not bow to any clock just to get a deal done with reluctant EU members on Friday: ""There is still room for manoeuvring. No position is final,"" he said. ""It may not be at five, it may be tomorrow morning or the day after."" 

""The Union will certainly expand, I have no doubt about this...But it is not clear by how many countries,"" he added, declining comment on whether the Czechs were prepared to walk away from EU membership because of the argument over money. 
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
93	Denmark	1999	40	Political	"COPENHAGEN, Dec 6 (Reuters) - Telecoms operator Tele Danmark said on Monday its domestic communications infrastructure had been secured and would enable it to continue to provide services after the turn of the millennium. 

""Tele Danmark is ready for Year 2000...Tele Danmark expects to have secured our communication services so they will work as satisfactorily after January 1, 2000 as they do today,"" the company said in a statement. 
 
TD 
 A former state-owned national operator, Tele Danmark provides a wide range of fixed line and cellular telephony as well as Internet and other data communication and cable television services. 

""The task of securing Tele Danmark has been carried out and completed through 2,225 individual projects as planned,"" it said, adding it had also prepared contingency plans for the days around the turn of the millennium. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
401	Denmark	2001	41	Political	"COPENHAGEN, Nov 20 (Reuters) - Denmark's veteran Social Democrat Prime Minister Poul Nyrup Rasmussen conceded defeat on Tuesday to the opposition centre-right after voters deserted him in a general election. 

Nyrup Rasmussen, who came to power in 1993 and is the longest serving European Union prime minister, said he would stay on as leader of his party. 
 
TD 
 ""The country we are now handing over to a centre-right government is a far better one than it was when we came to power almost nine years ago,"" he said. ""We will be a fair and constructive opposition."" 

Opposition Liberal Party leader Anders Fogh Rasmussen, an ex-economy and tax minister, picked up votes by promising change and to tighten access for asylum seekers and refugees. He was expected to form a Liberal-led coalition. 

Nyrup Rasmussen, 58, called the snap election last month in a disastrous gamble that voters would unite behind his leadership at a time of global uncertainty after the September 11 attacks on the United States.
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	3			1	5
263	Denmark	1991	46	Political	"COPENHAGEN, Aug 27, Reuter - German Socialist leader Bjoern Engholm and his Danish Social Democratic counterpart Svend Auken launched a joint initiative to set up a 10-nation Baltic Council to promote closer economic and cultural cooperation. 

""It is absolutely necessary for the ten different nations round the Baltic Sea to strengthen their economic ties and cultural identity,"" Engholm told a news conference here. 
 
TD 
 ""There are about 60 million people living round the Baltic Sea, if the region wants to have a say in the new Europe, we must speak with one voice, if we do not hurry we will be left behind by southern Europe in economic development."" 

""We are in competition with the south of Europe and have therefore to work together to make the Baltic area prosperous and bring our common interests to the attention of the European Community administration,"" said Engholm, who is also president of the north German state of Schleswig-Holstein. 

Engholm and Auken said the idea had received backing from Swedish Prime Minister Ingvar Carlsson. It was planned to approach other Baltic government and political leaders to gain their support. Auken said the projected Council would include Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland, Germany, the Russian Federation, Poland and the three Baltic republics. 
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
369	Denmark	1993	52	Corporate	"COPENHAGEN, Oct 7 (Reuter) - The Danish Underground Consortium's (DUC) production of gas from its North Sea fields was up 22 percent to 285 million cubic metres in September from 234 million cubic metres in September 1992, operator A.P. Moeller Group told Reuters. 

(Million cubic metres) Sept 1993 Aug 1993 Sept 1992 
 
TD 
 
    Total production   285     218    234

Gas production in the first nine months of the year was 2.71 billion cubic metres, 12 percent more than in the same period last year. 

DUC's January-September production of gas last year was 2.43 billion cubic metres. 

DUC is responsible for virtually the entire output from Denmark's North Sea oil and gas fields which make the country the third-biggest producer in western Europe after Britain and Norway. 

A.P. Moeller Group owns 39 percent of DUC. Its two partners, Royal Dutch/Shell group and Texaco Inc own 46 percent and 15 percent respectively.
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
228	Denmark	2009	54	Political	"COPENHAGEN, Dec 17 (Reuters) - Failure to reach agreement with China over greenhouse gas emissions transparency could be a dealbreaker for the United States at UN climate talks, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said on Thursday.

""It would be hard to imagine, speaking for the United States, that there could be the legal or financial commitment that I've just announced in the absence of transparency from the second biggest emitter, and now the I guess the first biggest,"" Clinton told a news conference after announcing the U.S. would join in $100 billion a year financing to help poor nations tackle climate change.
 
TD 
 ""There has to be a willingness to move toward transparency in whatever forum we finally determine is appropriate. So if there is not even a commitment to pursue transparency that's kind of a dealbreak for us.""

China has overtaken the United States as the world's top emitter. It has rejected calls to allow international checks of its emissions under new targets.

 
"	4	1	5	1	-1	0			4.5	1
27	Denmark	2004	57	Political	"COPENHAGEN, Aug 6 (Reuters) - A small commuter plane crashed into the sea off a beach near Copenhagen on Friday, killing all four people on board, Danish police said. 

Eyewitnesses, who had flocked to Solrod beach to enjoy the sunny afternoon, told Danish daily Berglinske the plane was flying close to the sea when it tipped over and crashed into the water about 200 meters (yards) from the shore. 
 
TD 
 Copenhagen AirTaxi, the company that owns the French made Tobago TB10 plane, told Reuters the plane had been chartered by a company offering sight seeing trips.
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
342	Denmark	1992	61	Corporate	"COPENHAGEN, Aug 7, Reuter - Troubled Danish insurer Hafnia Holding A/S said it would reduce its domestic staff by 535 people to slightly below 2,000 -- a 22 pct reduction. 

It said the company would save 300 million crowns annually through the staff cut and other cost reductions. 
 
TD 
 The measure was agreed by a joint labour-management committee which met on Thursday to discuss a rationalisation plan said to be vital for the group's survival. 

The statement did not specify in which fields the cuts would be made, but it stressed there would be rationalisation instead of staff reductions in the fields of sales and customer services. 

Hafnia had earlier said it did not expect staff cuts to affect the approximately 1,000 employees working in the group's overseas operations. 

The full restructuring plan is due late this month. 

Hafnia Holding made a 1991 net loss after minorities of 1.31 billion crowns against a 1.47 billion loss the previous year. 

After the discovery of irregular transactions by a senior manager sparked a suspension of Hafnia shares in Copenhagen and London last month, the insurer conducted an internal probe into dubious activities which brought it close to receivership. 

In the first two weeks of July, four senior Hafnia directors were dismissed and 14 managers retired or resigned. 

Hafnia is Denmark's second biggest insurance group and also has banking and other financial services interests. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
83	Denmark	2007	64	Political	"COPENHAGEN, Nov 8 (Reuters) - Dane Michael Rasmussen, who was thrown out of the Tour de France this summer while leading the race, admitted on Thursday he had lied about his training whereabouts before the Tour but said he never used doping. 

""I was not in Mexico in June. I gave wrong information to the UCI (International Cycling Union),"" he told a news conference in Copenhagen. "" Rabobank always knew where I was."" 
 
TD 
 Rasmussen was sacked by his team Rabobank in July four days before the Tour's end after they said he lied about where he had been training. At the time, Rasmussen insisted he had been training in Mexico, while the Dutch team said he had been in Italy. 

Rasmussen, flanked by a lawyer who several times answered questions directed to the rider, did not explain why he lied, saying that it was a private matter. 

The 33-year-old rejected allegations that he used performance-enhancing drugs, showing a slide of what he said were his blood test results. 

In September, the French Anti-Doping Agency (AFLD) said Rasmussen tested non-negative for the banned substance erythropoietin (EPO) during this year's Tour de France. 

The result of the analysis of Rasmussen's urine sample cannot be declared positive for legal reasons, AFLD said. 

Rabobank is scheduled to issue its own report on Rasmussen's firing on Monday. 
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
48	Denmark	1995	67	Political	"COPENHAGEN, Nov 21 (Reuter) - Denmark's Brondby, conquerors of Liverpool in the previous round, shrugged off the loss of an early goal to beat Roma 2-1 in the first leg of their UEFA Cup third round tie on Tuesday. 

Brondby made the early running and came close to scoring twice in the opening quarter of an hour. 
 
TD 
 But they fell behind in the 16th minute to a Daniel Fonseca header -- just after they had lost defender Dan Eggen through injury. 

Brondby's equaliser came two minutes into first half injury time, Peter Moeller making up for an earlier miss by ramming the ball past goalkeeper Giovanni Cervone. 

Ole Bjur struck Brondby's winner 11 minutes from time. 

Teams: 

Brondby - 1-Mogens Krogh, 2-Ole Bjur, 3-Dan Eggen (14-Kim Daugaard, 15th), 4-Per Nielsen, 5-Jens Risager, 6-Soeren Colding, 8-Allan Ravn Jensen, 7-Allan Nielsen, 11-Kim Vilfort, 10-Thomas Thoergesen, 9-Peter Moeller (12-Ebbe Sand, 69th) 

Roma - 1-Giovanni Cervone, 2-Enrico Annoni, 3-Santos Aldair, 5-Fabio Petruzzi, 4-Marco Lanna, 7-Fransesco Moriero, 8-Massimiliano Cappioli, 10-Allessio Scarchilli, 6-Amadeo Carboni, 9-Abel Balbo, 11-Daniel Fonseca. 

 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
65	Denmark	1998	69	Corporate	"COPENHAGEN, Nov 13 (Reuters) - Panalpina Denmark and its designated agent for western and central Denmark, Arco Airfreight, have terminated their business relationship just two months after it was signed, the two companies' confirmed to Reuters. 

Neither company was available for comment on the exact reasons for the November 9 split, although industry sources said it was due to a ""strategic disagreement"". 
 
TD 
 ""We seemed to share common goals at the outset, but we came to doubt the way things developed"", Arco Airfreght manager, Jan Hougaard Andersen, told Reuters. 

Arco Airfreight will now concentrate on its niche-business of serving international textile companies with forwarding and logistics services, Andersen added. 

Following the split, Panalpina said it would now reformulate its strategy for Denmark. 

""From now on, we will rely solely on our own organization, based in Copenhagen, and serve the Danish market directly,"" Lars Ola Guonarsson, Panalpina's Scandinavian manager, told Reuters by telephone from Stockholm. 

""We have started out in Denmark relatively modestly but intend to grow with the market, with IBM among our key accounts"", he added. Panalpina Denmark was set up on September 1 at the same time as the agreement with Arco Airfreight and is a fully-owned subsidiary of Swiss-based forwarder Panalpina Welttransport AG. 

 
"	1	3	1	2	0	1			1	2.5
470	Denmark	1992	69	Political	"COPENHAGEN, Oct 22, Reuter - Opposition parties led by the Social Democrats, Denmark's biggest party, unveiled a draft plan for a new legally binding arrangement with Europe following the Danes' narrow ""No"" vote to the Maastricht Treaty on European union in a June referendum. 

The plan - hammered out after four days of negotiation - calls for Denmark to opt out of joint European currency, defence police and legal cooperation as well as common European Community citizenship. It also calls for Denmark to retain full control over social welfare policy. 
 
TD 
 In addition it demands more openness and democracy in the EC-decision-making process, while stressing Denmark's committment to continued EC membership. 

The three opposition parties behind the plan - the Social Democrats, the leftist Socialist People's Party and the centrist Radical Liberals - have a combined 91 seats and thus a majority in the 179-seat Danish parliament. 

The draft - seen as the outline framework for Denmark's eventual final proposal for an accommodation with the EC - will form the basis for negotiations in the coming days involving the 22-month-old Conservative-Liberal minority government and all other parties represented in parliament. 

The government has said it aims to present Denmark's ""broad national compromise"" plan for solving the deadlock over Maastricht to its 11 EC partners by November 1. 

Denmark hopes that its final concrete proposal on its future role in Europe will receive formal treatment at the EC Summit in Edinburgh in December, paving the way for the holding of a fresh Danish referendum on Europe possibly in spring 1993. 

The government welcomed the opposition initiative, seeing it as a positive move in the current efforts to reach a broad national compromise on Denmark's future role in Europe acceptable to a majority of the eight parties in parliament as well as to both ""Yes"" and ""No"" voters in the June referendum. 

""The opposition document is a serious and reasonable proposal which can be used as the basis for Denmark's final position on Europe to present to our 11 EC partners,"" foreign minister Uffe Ellemann-Jensen said in a television interview. 

""We must now study the document in detail along with the other parties in parliament.If we really want a broad national compromise on our future in the European Community, we will all have to show flexibility, I think we should be able to reach an agreement,"" Ellemann-Jensen added
 
"	1	2	1	3	0	1			1	2.5
78	Denmark	1994	70	Political	"COPENHAGEN, Aug 30 (Reuter) - Denmark's opposition Liberal and Conservative parties proposed gross savings of 17 billion crowns in the Danish state budget for 1995. 

The net effect of the proposal would be 10 billion crowns extra net savings compared with the Social Democrat-led government's draft budget released last week. 
 
TD 
 The government has proposed a fiscal tightening equivalent to 0.3 percent of Gross Domestic Product, resulting in a projected 45.3 billion crown shortfall. 

Danish parliamentary elections will be held September 21. 

The Liberal-Conservative shadow budget confirmed remarks about the extra net savings made by opposition politicians last week. 

The document also aimed at erasing Denmark's foreign debt by the year 2000 through a continued big balance of payments surplus, eliminating the 10-year yield gap with Germany in the short term, and creating 200,000 new private sector jobs by 1998.
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
388	Denmark	1992	75	Corporate	"COPENHAGEN, May 13, Reuter - Danish financial services group Baltica Holding A/S may try to take full control of its 82.1 pct owned insurance unit Baltica Forsikring A/S, a Baltica Holding official told Reuters. 

But Baltica's rival, Hafnia Holding A/S, which holds 33.5 pct of Baltica Holding and tried unsuccessfully to merge their insurance units, holds over 10 pct of Baltica Forsikring, a Hafnia spokesman said. 
 
TD 
 He declined to comment when asked if Hafnia, which is planning a rights issue to ease its financial problems, would be willing to sell its Forsikring stake. 

Baltica needs 90 pct of the shares before it can take full control. 

The Baltica official said his firm is in no hurry to make a decision. Full ownership has some tax advantages, but Baltica already has plenty of tax-deductible losses, he added. 

On Tuesday Baltica Holding bought a 3.4 pct stake in Baltica Forsikring from pension fund ATP at 1,780 crowns a share and the official said Baltica might be ready to pay that price again. 

The Hafnia spokesman declined comment. 

Baltica units also sold 3.3 pct of Baltica Holding's shares to ATP at 600 crowns a share, lifting ATP's stake to 11.59 pct. 

Relations between Hafnia and Baltica have been frosty since Hafnia, under then chief executive Per Villum Hansen, bought a stake in Baltica and proposed the merger which Baltica rejected. 

Hafnia then bought 14.9 pct of Swedish insurer Forsakrings AB Skandia as part of a deal with Norway's UNI Storebrand to forge a Nordic Cooperation alliance. Skandia resisted the idea and turned the tables, launching a takeover bid for Hafnia that was at first accepted by the Hafnia board, but then rejected under pressure from shareholders. 

Baltica had discussed an alliance with Skandia, but dropped the idea when Hafnia launched its Nordic Cooperation plan. 
 
"	1	2	1	3	0	1			1	2.5
213	Denmark	1990	77	Corporate	"COPENHAGEN, Aug 15, Reuter - The Copenhagen stock exchange said it is suspending with immediate effect trading in the shares of Unidanmark A/S, the holding company for Denmark's second biggest bank, Unibank A/S. 

It said in a statement the suspension was at the company's request. 
 
TD 
 Unidanmark said in a separate statement it had requested the suspension and was bringing forward to today from tomorrow the announcement of its first-half 1990 results because a newspaper had obtained a draft of the results announcement. 

Unidanmark said it will announce the first-half results after a board meeting this morning. It did not identify the newspaper which had obtained the document. 

Unidanmark began operations on January 1 after it was created through the merger of three large Danish banks, Privatbanken A/S, SDS Holding A/S and Andelsbanken A/S. This will be its first half-year result. 

The three banks' combined end-1989 results showed a drop in earnings before depreciation to 3.45 billion crowns from 3.51 billion a year earlier and a sharp drop in net profit to 1.246 billion from 1.895 billion. 

Profits were hit by substantial loan loss provisions and write-offs and by a swing to a securities adjustment loss from a large gain in 1988. But combined 1989 operating profit before expenses rose to 9.35 billion from 8.96 billion crowns. 

Unibank began operations with total assets of 300 billion crowns and capital and reserves of 19 billion. 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
196	Denmark	1990	82	Political	"COPENHAGEN, Aug 17, Reuter - Denmark will charter merchant ships to carry Egyptian troops to Saudi Arabia as part of the multinational military buildup there since Iraq's takeover of Kuwait. 

Foreign Minister Uffe Ellemann-Jensen said the government was contacting Danish shipping firms with vessels in the Gulf area and several shippers said they were ready to help. 
 
TD 
 Ellemann-Jensen told Danish television on Thursday night the decision had broad backing from parliament's influential Foreign Policy Committee, which met after Egypt asked Denmark and other countries for help in moving troops to Saudi Arabia. 

Denmark fully supports the U.N. economic embargo against Iraq, but the minority coalition government would not take concrete steps to help the anti-Iraq military buildup without opposition support. 

Officials of two Danish shippers, Mercandia and East Asiatic Co Ltd, said they would help if the government asked them to. 

There are 83 Danes in Iraqi-occupied Kuwait and 17 in Iraq. Foreign Ministry officials said all were in good condition and in regular contact with their embassies. 

State-run Radio Danmark has set up special shortwave transmissions so that relatives of the trapped Danes can send them personal messages. 
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
138	Denmark	1998	85	Corporate	"COPENHAGEN, Nov 5 (Reuters) - UK property company TBI plc is investing 19 million Swedish crowns ($2.44 million) in Sweden's Skavsta Airport to improve passenger facilities, the first of several planned upgrades, an airport spokesman said. 

TBI, which acquired Skavsta located south of Stockholm in June, expects passenger volumes to rise, following the success of low-cost operator Ryan Air, the airport's major user. 
 
TD 
 ""The passenger terminal, to be opened by summer 1999, will be able to cope with 750,000-800,000 passengers a year compared to the current 200,000,"" Peter Rogeman, Skavsta's marketing director told Reuters. 

Improvements will include more check-in desks, a new bagage handling system, modern aircraft docking facilities, an enlarged dining area and a new tax-free shop, he said. 

""Pending final decision later this autumn, some 20 million Swedish crowns more will be invested in a new runway lighting system,"" he added. 

The airport is also considering an extension of the 2,600 metre main runway to accomodate longhaul freight and passenger traffic, Rogeman said. 

Skavsta's operators include charter airlines, and low-cost airline, Ryanair, with three daily flights to and from London. 

((Herbert Nielsen, Air Cargo newsroom +44 171 542 7706 fax +5017 air.cargo@reuters.com)) ($1=7.784 Swedish Crown). 

 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
222	Denmark	1995	89	Political	"COPENHAGEN, Nov 14 (Reuter) - Here are the highlights of stories in the Danish press. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy. 

POLITIKEN 
 
TD 
 --Danish Minister of Environment Svend Auken says that the chemical industry must investigate the dangerous properties of more than 100,000 products that have not been thoroughly checked by the European Union. Currently, the EU only manages to examine 77 out of 100,000 chemical products. 

--Saturday's wedding between the Danish Prince Joachim and Hong Kong born Alexandra Manley, is affecting many aspects of daily life in the Kingdom. Danish name researchers are expecting a boom in babies being named Alexandra. 

JYLLANDS-POSTEN 

--Following the execution of nine Ogoni activists in Nigeria, a planned Danish construction project worth more than 400 million crowns is in serious trouble. As a result of the likely sanctions towards Nigeria, the EU embassy complex which is to be built in the new capital Abuja by the Danish Architect firm Dissing & Weitling risks being indefinitely postponed. 

BERLINGSKE TIDENDE 

--More than 50 Nigerians living in Denmark yesterday protested the executions in their home country outside the Danish Parliament. They demanded an oil embargo and encouraged Danish politicians to break diplomatic relations with Nigeria. 

BORSEN 

--Private enterprise and highly educated Danes are the only citizens in favour of a common European currency. According to a survey by Green Institute, 55 percent do not want a common EU currency, 29 percent think it would be a good idea and 15 percent aren't sure. 

 
"	2	2	2	3	0	-1			2	2.5
123	Denmark	1997	90	Political	"COPENHAGEN, Nov 21 (Reuters) - More than one third of Danes see immigration as a social problem, according to a survey on Friday which helped to explain strong gains by the right-wing Danish People's Party (DPP) in local elections this week. 

The DPP, under its no-nonsense leader Pia Kjaersgaard, came from nowhere to seize 6.8 percent of the votes in a campaign which included demands for the repatriation of some immigrants. 
 
TD 
 ""Although less than two years old, the party timed its campaign just right and rode a wave of growing public concern over refugees and immigrants,"" the institute for economic analysis IFKA said in a quarterly report. 

Its survey, conducted before the nationwide vote on Tuesday, showed that 35 percent of Danes were ""very concerned"" with refugees and immigrants as a social problem - double the percentage of one year earlier. 

The Danish replies compared with 16 percent of Swedes, 11 percent of Finns and 10 percent of Norwegians who said they were very concerned about immigration, according to the survey by IFKA and MDC group in Helsinki. 

""Several factors explain the recent surge in Danish xenophobia,"" the research institute said, listing crime and incidents of violence involving some ethnic groups which had attracted intense media coverage and fuelled demands for tougher immigation laws. 

New Interior Minister Thorkild Simonsen, whose appointment in October was seen as a response to growing dissatisfaction over immigrants, was due this month to suggest a tougher policy. 

But the tabloid Ekstrabladet, which has reported extensively on the immigration debate, said the minister was trapped between demands by fellow Social Democrats for tighter controls and opposition by their coalition partner, the Radical Liberals. 

Denmark is bound by its international commitments to accept people fleeing persecution and also de facto refugees, but it has discretion over the acceptance of refugees' families. 

Simonsen is considering setting immigration quotas and cutting subsistence payments, while making applicants stay in the towns allocated and sit language and other tests before they became citizens, Ekstrabladet said. 

Of Denmark's 5.2 million population, 4.5 percent are foreign nationals, including 3.3 percent from countries other than North America, the European Union and non-EU Nordic countries. 

 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
203	Finland	2009	4	Corporate	"HELSINKI, Dec 22 (Reuters) - Struggling Finnish sporting goods firm Amer Sports said on Tuesday its Chief Executive and President Roger Talermo would resign and Heikki Takala has been appointed his successor.

Amer Sports said in a statement Talermo would continue in a special role assigned by the board until June 21, and then resign.

Takala, 43, currently commercial director at Procter & Gamble's Salon Professional unit, would take the helm starting April next year, the company said.

Amer Sports, which makes Wilson tennis rackets and Atomic and Salomon skis, has seen its equipment markets slump in the recession, and launched a 150 million euro ($215 million) rights issue earlier in the autumn to pay down debt.

The firm said last month it does not expect a quick recovery in its markets, adding it will continue to focus on lowering costs and using its working capital wisely. [ID:nGEE5AT071]

Shares in Amer Sports were up 7.2 percent at 6.70 euros at 0812 GMT. (Editing by Hans Peters) ($1=.6978 Euro)
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
435	Finland	2004	5	Political	"HELSINKI, Nov 30 (Reuters) - The European Union should impose limits on cash transfers, adding to a recent decision on border controls to hinder the funding of terror groups, its top counter-terrorism official said on Tuesday. 

""There seems to be a shift from the formal financial system to informal channels, like cash transferring,"" Gijs de Vries said during a visit to Finland. ""These flows are very substantial."" 
 
TD 
 EU finance ministers agreed in mid-November to toughen the control of cross-border cash movements, deciding that travellers who enter or leave the region with more than 10,000 euros ($13,270) need to declare it or face a penalty. 

De Vries, appointed to coordinate EU counter-terrorism measures after the March 11 bombings of passenger trains in Madrid, said the union's heads of state and government should discuss more measures when they meet in Brussels on December 17. 

""There is already a proposition against money laundering ... now we need to crack down on cash transfers,"" de Vries said. 
 
"	1	4	1	3	0	1			1	3.5
76	Finland	2008	11	Political	"HELSINKI, Nov 28 (Reuters) - Nuclear power will play a key role in helping the European Union cut its dependence on fossil fuels and secure future energy supplies, EU Enlargement Commissioner Olli Rehn said on Friday.

""Nuclear energy will have a prominent role in leading the EU towards a low-carbon society,"" Rehn said in the text of a speech at a conference in the Finnish city of Turku.
 
TD 
 ""The role of nuclear energy will be essential to strengthen the Union's energy security after 2020,"" he said.

Ambitious EU plans to cut carbon dioxide emissions by a fifth by 2020 have brought nuclear power back into fashion, also boosted by predictions of soaring fossil fuel prices.

But it has been a source of friction in the 27-nation bloc ever since the 1986 Chernobyl disaster, with France heavily reliant on the technology but neighbouring Germany and nearby Austria still staunchly opposed.

In Finland, Rehn's home country, work is ongoing on a fifth nuclear reactor and the government earlier this month flagged the possible need for more nuclear power.

Rehn said that while laudable, the EU's emissions targets were still not enough to reduce the dependency on fossil fuels.

""EU energy policy cannot perform miracles ... Even after the implementation of the climate and energy policies, the EU's net imports of fossil fuels are still expected to stay roughly at today's levels,"" he said. (Reporting by Brett Young; Editing by Jon Boyle)
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
288	Finland	1998	18	Political	"HELSINKI, Dec 2 (Reuters) - Finland is considering bringing war crimes charges against former Soviet partisans for killing Finnish civilians during World War Two, a state prosecutor said on Wednesday. 

Christer Lundstrom told Reuters it was not possible to release any details of the investigation because he was still sorting out basic facts. ""We have some details we need to check up on before we can go forward,"" Lundstrom said. 
 
TD 
 The two countries were at war twice in the 1939-45 period. 

In the ""Winter War"" of November 1939 to March 1940, Stalin's Soviet Union, still neutral in Nazi Germany's conflict with European democracies, attacked Finland and wrested away a border area of 42,000 square km (16,000 square miles). 

In 1941 Finland joined Hitler's attack on the Soviet Union in hope of regaining the lost territory. It signed a separate armistice in 1944. 

The new investigations centre on alleged attacks by Soviet partisans on Finnish villages in northeastern border areas. Between 100 and 300 civilians, including women and children, were killed in such raids, Lundstrom said. 

A foreign ministry official said prosecutors had so far not asked for diplomatic assistance in the matter, but Helsingin Sanomat newspaper quoted Foreign Minister Tarja Halonen as saying the case could be examined as part of the cooperation agreement between Finland and Russia on fighting crime. 

Lundstrom said the issue of extradition of any potential suspects was looming large for the investigators as it was not clear if agreements between the two countries would be sufficient. 

""We have some conditions for extradition, but we have to see if it is possible to use them in this case,"" he said. 

 
"	2	4	2	4	0	0			2	4
375	Finland	2001	42	Political	"HELSINKI, Nov 5 (Reuters) - Finnish Finance Minister Sauli Niinisto said on Monday he would not apply for a vacancy on the Bank of Finland's board, throwing competition for the positions wide open less than two weeks before applications are due. 

The 53-year-old former Conservative Party leader, considered a strong candidate to fill one of two new positions on the board, bowed out saying the post would not give him the scope to use his expertise in European monetary affairs. 
 
TD 
 ""I feel that as one of five members of board I could not fully utilise my experience and interest in euro-area fiscal and monetary policy issues,"" Niinisto said in a statement. 

""After serious consideration...I decided to continue in my current position,"" Niinisto added. 

The Bank of Finland's parliamentary supervisors last month decided to expand the bank's board, and signalled that seasoned politicians would bring a valuable social perspective to the workings of the board. 

The decision has sparked lively debate over whether politicians or financial professionals are best suited for the board, with critics calling political appointments outdated, especially given Finland's membership in the euro zone. 

The current board includes Governor Matti Vanhala; Sinikka Salo, formerly of the European Central Bank; and one political appointee, Matti Louekoski, a former Social Democrat member of parliament and finance minister. 

But Vanhala, also a member of the European Central Bank Governing Council, said last week on Finnish television that he alone would remain in charge of monetary policy, and noted that the board did not rule on such issues on a collegial basis. 

Niinisto's decision opens up competition for the spots less than two weeks before the November 14 deadline for applications. President Tarja Halonen will choose the two new members at a later date. 

In addition to Niinisto, former prime minister Esko Aho of the opposition Centre Party has said he would apply for a board seat and would quit politics if appointed. 

Ilkka Kanerva, chairman of the bank's parliamentary supervisors and a member of the Conservative Party, had also shown interest but was overshadowed by the likelihood of a Niinisto bid. 
 
"	2	5	2	4	0	1		1	2	4.5
440	Finland	1995	43	Political	"HELSINKI, Dec 3 (Reuter) - Rats Charles and Conrad slamdunked their way through an end-to-end basketball game on Sunday as Finnish researchers displayed the rodents' talents for learning. 

An enthralled crowd of small children cheered as the two six-month-old tame rats vied over a miniature ball, snatching it from under each other's snouts, and scampered to the right end of a rat-sized court to drop it neatly into the basket. 
 
TD 
 ""They're real stars,"" said trainer Katja Luostarinen at the Finnish Science Centre, where the rats have been training one hour a day for three months. ""But actually, the girls Francine and Jane are better. They're quicker and they learn faster."" 

The rats have been demonstrating their ball-handling skills to capacity crowds for a week, as part of a project organised by the centre to help people understand the learning process. 

They were trained with a ball filled with nuts and rewarded with a scrap of food every time they netted the ball at the correct end of the court. The ball they play with now is empty, but they still earn a tidbit for every point. 

""We only gave them positive responses,"" said Luostarinen, plucking a curious rat from out of her overall sleeve. ""Nothing negative -- that wouldn't help them."" 

Psychologist Sini Paananen, who organised the programme, said the rats clearly enjoy the sport. She pointed to their shiny fur and alert manner and said a vet checks them regularly. The rats only play same-sex matches to keep clashes friendly. 

""It can't be much fun just being a rat waiting for food in a cage,"" she said. ""They wouldn't play if they didn't like it."" 

The scientists no longer keep count of the scores in each game, but the spectators decided Charles had won 11-9. 

 
"	3	4	4	3	1	2			3.5	3.5
23	Finland	2002	47	Corporate	"HELSINKI, Dec 11 (Reuters) - Finnish electronics contract manufacturer Elcoteq (ELQAV.HE) said on Wednesday it had been licensed to design smartphones using Symbian technology, giving a boost to its design centre in Salo, Finland. 

""Elcoteq has joined Symbian's Platinum Partner Program,"" the company said in a statement. ""Very soon we will be able to offer customers a total design solution for technically demanding terminal devices."" 

Symbian software is the global industry standard operating system for advanced, data-enabled 'smartphones', mobile phones offering services, like e-mail. 

It is owned by the world's top mobile phone makers, including Nokia (NOK1V.HE) and U.S. Motorola (MOT.N). 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
268	Finland	2002	51	Political	"HELSINKI, Oct 12 (Reuters) - A powerful bomb which ripped through a packed shopping centre in a Helsinki suburb killing seven and injuring dozens was suspected to have been carried out by one of the casualties, Finnish police said on Saturday. 

""There are no indications of motives yet,"" National Bureau of Investigation Chief Inspector Tero Haapala told a news conference. He said the suspect, of Finnish origin and under the age of 20, had been identified. 
 
TD 
 Haapala said the suspect, a Helsinki University student, had no criminal record. It was too early to say if he had acted alone. 

""We are also investigating the possibility that he could have had accomplices,"" Haapala said. 

Police said the bomb exploded in the centre of the mall near a crowd of children being entertained by a clown. One child was among the dead. 

The blast, Finland's deadliest for decades, ripped through the country's second largest mall at about 7:30 p.m. (1630 GMT) on Friday, killing seven and wounding at least 80 others. Shoppers fled the scene screaming shoppers in fear amid flying debris. 

""...The number of victims shows what a shocking, ruthless and despicable thing this is,"" said a sombre Interior Minister Ville Itala. 

Hospitals said the injured were no longer in critical condition. 

Authorities said they were still considering all possible motives for the bombing, including an act of terror. 

The explosion badly damaged an area of some 300 square metres (3,200 sq ft) and sent metal debris and glass flying across the three-storey building. 

SHOPPERS PANICKED 

Witnesses said they heard a blast and then the lights went out. Many people panicked and children were screaming, witnesses told local media. 

""There was an explosion, the windows shook. The floor shook. I didn't see a fire but I saw some 50 to 100 people rushing out of the mall,"" security guard Jami Koskimaki told Reuters. 

Several visitors said they were sure it was a bomb. 

""Suddenly we heard an explosion and thought it was a bomb. It was chaotic,"" Antonia Koki-Makkonen told YLE national television. ""We had told ourselves before that we shouldn't shop on a Friday evening because it's so busy."" 

Police, fire brigade, medical helicopters and dozens of ambulances rushed to the scene. Television footage showed injured people being treated by ambulance services and blood on the mall's staircases. 

""We've been dealing with severe blast and crush injuries, with maimed arms and legs. The main problem is all the metal pieces embedded in injured bodies. It is clear someone intended to cause a lot of damage to a lot of people in a very dense area,"" Toolo hospital chief doctor Eero Hivensalo told Reuters. 

Deliberately set explosions are rare in relatively crime-free Finland. The last such blast was in July when a car bomb killed a Finn in what authorities said was probably a gangland attack. 

The last major peacetime blast in the Nordic country of 5.2 million inhabitants was in 1970s when an explosion at a munitions factory killed 40 people, authorities said. 

President Tarja Halonen and Lipponen expressed their condolences. ""This has never happened in Finland before. The explosion has shocked all of us Finns,"" Lipponen said. ""I can assure you that the government...will not rest until the guilty one or ones have been brought to justice."" 

The Myyrmanni mall in Vantaa, a suburb some 15 km (10 miles) north of the capital, has 138 shops and restaurants. The 32,000 square metre mall opened in 1994 and is run by Finnish Citycon. 

 
"	2	4	2	3	0	1		1	2	3.5
344	Finland	2003	54	Political	"HELSINKI, Aug 19 (Reuters) - The new U.N. governor for Kosovo, Finland's Harri Holkeri, said on Tuesday his one-year mandate might be too short to bring the region's ethnic Serbs and Albanians to the negotiating table. 

Decisions have to be taken on the final status of the province - whether it will remain part of Serbia & Montenegro, become independent or hold some other status. 
 
TD 
 ""It seems that one year is a bit too short to finalise the U.N. mission because among other things parliamentary elections will be held (in Kosovo) in the second half of next year,"" Holkeri told Finland's MTV3 television, speaking Finnish. 

""I don't think the elections will pose technical problems but the problem is (if) there will be a struggle before the vote which might turn into real fighting,"" he added. 

The United Nations has administered Kosovo since 1999 when NATO bombing drove out Serb forces to end their oppression of the ethnic Albanian majority in the province. 
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
105	Finland	1991	63	Political	"HELSINKI, Oct 1, Reuter - Finnish Foreign Minister Paavo Vaeyrynen said Finland would not propose talks about the return of land it lost to the Soviet Union in World War Two as neither the Soviet Union nor Russia was ready for such negotiations. 

Vaeyrynen, a centrist, did not dismiss the possibility of talks in the future but was quoted in his party organ Suomenmaa on Tuesday as dismissing talks now, ""in a situation in which the Soviet Union and Russia are not ready to negotiate"". 
 
TD 
 Finland ceded around 10 per cent of its territory north of Leningrad (now St Petersburg) during World War Two. It resettled 422,000 refugees from the former Finnish Karelia, 11 per cent of its total population, on its present territory. 

Vaeyrynen said it was known Moscow did not wish to open talks about returning Karelia. 
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
161	Finland	1996	75	Political	"HELSINKI, Nov 11 (Reuter) - Finland may still choose to remain outside Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) in 1999, even if it met the criteria for joining, Danish Unibank said in a weekly report. 

""A picture is emerging of a Finland which meets the criteria for EMU participation on January 1 1999 but yet decides to remain outside,"" Unibank said in a weekly reasearch report received on Friday. 
 
TD 
 ""This could be one of the reasons why Finnish yields have (recently) not tracked the convergence trend,"" it said. 

The Social Democratic Party's newly elected parliamentary group leader Erkki Tuomioja put Finland's EMU membership in the spotlight, saying that it was not desirable already in 1999. 

But Unibank nonetheless said the recent widening of the ten-year yield gap over Germany seems to be exaggerated since Finland is considered to be among the countries meeting the Maastricht criteria for EMU. 

It said the Finnish bond market is currently surrounded by uncertainty and advised investors to adopt a wait-and-see stance. 

""Alternatively, investors could consider buying Finnish long bonds against unlikely EMU participants such as for instance Italy,"" it said. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
32	Finland	1993	79	Corporate	"HELSINKI, Nov 2 (Reuter) - Finnish Metsa-Serla Oy and Amer-yhtyma Oy today signed a letter of intent under which Metsa-Serla is to acquire 75 percent of Amerpap Oy, fully owned by Amer-yhtyma, the two companies said in a statement. 

The price of the deal was not disclosed. Amer Group chief executive Seppo Ahonen said Amer received cash for the deal. 
 
TD 
 Amerpap is Finland's leading paper merchant, with annual sales exceeding 20,000 tonnes, worth more than 200 million markka, the companies said. 

""Amerpap is operating at profit,"" the companies said. 

The deal would not affect Amer's result this year, Ahonen said. The group's result is expected to continue improving and the sale of Amerpap would certainly not have an ""adverse affect"" on the result next year, Ahonen said. 

Metsa-Serla's papers represent almost half of Amerpap's business. Other paper manufacturers represented by it include Enso-Gutzeit Oy and state-owned Veitsiluoto Oy. 

The arrangement is to take effect when the two companies' boards of directors have approved it. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
85	Finland	2003	80	Corporate	"HELSINKI, Nov 28 (Reuters) - About a thousand workers at a Finnish plant of Swiss-Swedish engineering group ABB (ABB.ST) have staged a one-day strike on Friday to protest planned changes in the work schedule, the company said. 

Spokeswoman Carita Jern told Reuters that almost all blue-collar workers at the plant in Vaasa, 400 kilometres (250 miles) northwest of Helsinki, took strike action, but white-collar workers had accepted the employer plans. 
 
TD 
 The plant, which makes transformers for various industries, employs a total workforce of about 2,500. 

""We are in negotiations with staff on a new model for flexible working hours, but its not a big change from what we had before. The talks will go on,"" Jern said. 

She declined to estimate the financial impact of the strike. 
 
"	3	1	3	1	2	1	1		3	1
441	Finland	2002	80	Corporate	"HELSINKI, Nov 27 (Reuters) - Contract electronics maker Sanmina-SCI Corp said on Wednesday it would cut almost 30 percent of its staff in Finland due to persistently weak demand. 

An official said the company would shut its plant in Tikkakoski in central Finland, axing 300 jobs. He said after the move Sanmina-SCI would have a total staff of some 800 at two facilities in Finland. 
 
TD 
 He could not give a figure for the cost savings. 

The closure is the latest move by U.S.-headquartered Sanmina-SCI, which like its peers has suffered as global demand weakens, to reduce operations in Finland after the firm closed a factory in Aanekoski around a year ago. 

Sanmina-SCI has manufacturing facilities in 22 countries across the globe. An exact figure for total staff worldwide was not immediately available. 
 
"	1	2	1	2	2	2	1		1	2
343	Finland	1997	89	Corporate	"HELSINKI, Dec 10 (Reuters) - Finnish advertising agency Markkinointi Viherjuuri said in a statement on Wednesday it was taking over Postipankki's advertising department for an undisclosed sum. 

The purchase of the state-owned bank's operations would boost next year's growth and profitability outlook, it said. 
 
TD 
 ""For Markkinointi Viherjuuri, the deal will signficantly strengthen the 1998 outlook both for growth and profitability,"" it said, but did not elaborate. 

Markkinointi Viherjuuri has not given any forecast for 1998, but it has said this year's profit would fall compared to last year, when it made a profit before extras of 8.9 million markka. 

Its January-August earnings before extras were 0.7 million, down from 3.8 million last year and the group has said the focus on this year's earnings would be on the last tertial. 

Postipankki sold its advertising unit as part of efforts to outsource non-banking operations, Viherjuuri said. 

Fifteen of the purchased department's staff would move to Markkinointi Viherjuuri, and two would be transferred to Postipankki's information unit, it said. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
424	Finland	2004	98	Corporate	"HELSINKI, Nov 16 (Reuters) - Finnair's low-cost unit flynordic will launch new routes out of Stockholm in March, serving Dublin, Berlin, Munich and Tallinn as it expands outside Scandinavia, Finland's flag carrier said on Tuesday. 

Routes running from Gothenburg-Munich and Copenhagen-Tallinn are also planned by flynordic which currently operates in Sweden, Denmark and Norway. 
 
TD 
 Last year, Finnair took a majority stake in what was then Nordic Airlink in its hunt to become the leading low-cost airline in Scandinavia and raised that to 100 percent in May. 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
284	France	1991	7	Corporate	" PARIS, Dec 23, Reuter - Banque Nationale de Paris is raising its base lending rate to 10.35 pct from 10 pct with effect from Thursday, December 26, a spokeswoman said. 

She said the decision to raise rates followed the increase in official rates by the Bank of France this morning. 
 
TD 
 The Bank of France raised its intervention rate to 9.60 pct from 9.25 pct this morning, with its five-to-10 day lending rate rising to 10.50 pct from 10 pct. 

The two rates were increased by a half point and quarter point respectively on November 18. 

On both occasions, the increases were made by the French authorities to support the franc at its current parity against the mark within the European Monetary System. 

The banks left base rates unchanged in November after the government's decision to cut their reserve requirements by around 13 billion francs. 
 
"	2	1	2	1	2	0	1	1	2	1
217	France	2006	10	Political	"PARIS, Dec 27 (Reuters) - A French-led satellite project will be launched on Wednesday to seek out new Earth-like planets beyond the solar system and to explore the interior of stars, the European Space Agency (ESA) said. 

The COROT project will send into orbit a telescope capable of detecting planets smaller than is currently known -- some maybe just a few times the size of Earth and rocky, rather than the larger, gaseous types, ESA said. 
 
TD 
 ""COROT will be able to find extra-solar planets of all sizes and natures, contrary to what we can do from the ground at the moment,"" Claude Catala, one of the researchers associated with the project, told France Info radio. 

""We expect to obtain a better vision of planet systems beyond the solar system, about the distribution of planet sizes,"" she said. ""And finally, it will allow us to estimate the likelihood of there existing planets resembling the Earth in the neighbourhood of the sun or further away in the galaxy."" 

COROT is due to be launched at 1423 GMT from Kazakhstan. 

Planets have been found orbiting stars other than the sun but they have never been seen. Instead, scientists have deduced they are there based on the stars' ""wobble"", the result of the gravitational pull of planets revolving around them. 

COROT, a project of the French National Space Studies Centre (CNES) in which ESA is participating, will be able to detect smaller, rocky planets by using a different method. 

It will measure the light emitted by a star and detect the drop in brightness caused when a planet passes in front of it. 

Like the larger planets found so far, however, these new ones will have to be orbiting close to their star. 

""Such planets would represent a new, as yet undiscovered, class of world that astronomers believe exists. With COROT, astronomers expect to find between 10-40 of them, together with tens of new gas giants,"" ESA said. 

ESA said COROT would also be used to track sound waves that resonate through a star, creating changes in brightness that should give scientists a glimpse into the interior of the stars themselves. 

""These create a 'starquake' that sends ripples across the star's surface, altering its brightness. The exact nature of the ripples allows astronomers to calculate the star's precise mass, age and chemical composition,"" it said. 

In 2008, the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) is due to launch the first space telescope capable of detecting Earth-sized planets in similar orbits to ours, ESA said. 
 
"	3	1	2	1	2	1	1		2.5	1
338	France	1993	10	Corporate	"PARIS, Dec 22 (Reuter) - The European car market is likely to remain difficult next year, with either a very small recovery in sales or another fall, albeit smaller than this year's, French car industry sources say. 

The most optimistic forecasts are for a rise of three to five percent in new car sales in Europe next year. 
 
TD 
 The French car makers' committee (CCFA), however, is predicting a rise of less than one percent at best. 

Cofica, a car loan subsidiary of Cie Bancaire, is expecting a fall of three percent. 

The CCFA puts the European car market at 11.1 to 11.9 million vehicles next year, after an estimated 11.42 million this year. Its 1994 forecast is 15.4 percent below 1992's 13.46 million cars and remains around 1985 levels. 

Jacques Calvet, chairman of PSA Peugeot Citroen, recently added a note of caution. He said if there was a small rise in European car sales next year, it would not be a true recovery. 

The industry would probably have to wait until 1995 or 1997 to experience the level of sales seen in 1992, he said. 

At Regie Nationale des Usines Renault, Patrick Faure, deputy managing director, this month predicted a rise of four to five percent in the European car market in 1994. 

""That will be a long way from recovering lost ground, and in any case is far from enough,"" a Renault spokesman said. 

Calvet said car makers had ""touched bottom, because next year the European market is expected to turn positive,"" but cautioned that structural effects and the economic climate should continue to weigh. 

The fall in car sales has created overcapacity in Europe of around three million vehicles, and this will continue into 1994. 

The outcome has been a chase for sales through keen pricing, which will hit car companies' 1993 results hard. 

Car sector analysts say 1994 results will still suffer. 

Various studies suggest that all European car makers will see a fall in their turnover this year, of some six percent for Renault, eight percent for Peugeot, Volkswagen and BMW, and 17 percent for Fiat SpA. 

Analysts expect all firms except Renault, AB Volvo and BMW to lose money this year. 

Renault is seen breaking even or showing a small profit. 

 
"	1	3	1	3	2	2	1		1	3
8	France	2001	16	Corporate	"

 PARIS, Dec 17 (Reuters) - Japan Air Lines (JAL) and Thai Airways will be removed their ex-France fuel surcharges within the next week, the airlines' cargo offices in Paris told Reuters. 

Thai said the 10 euro cents per kilo surcharge will be removed completely from December 20. 
 
TD 
 JAL Cargo said its ex-France cargo fuel surcharge of seven euro cents per kilo will be dropped from December 24. 

Meanwhile, All Nippon Airways (ANA) said it is awaiting confirmation from head office in Japan on the removal of its 10 euro cents surcharge, with January 1 seen as the likely date. 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
367	France	2000	22	Corporate	"PARIS, Dec 19 (Reuters) - Pierre Lescure, head of French pay-TV group Canal Plus, now part of Vivendi Universal , will address staff at Canal on Thursday to announce his ambitions for the group, a Canal statement said on Tuesday. 

The statement also said that Alain de Greef, Canal's director of programmes, would have wider responsibilities, and in a second statement de Greef denied newspaper reports he was to be fired or demoted. 
 
TD 
 The statements gave no further information over what Lescure might say on Thursday. No one was immediately available at Canal to comment. 

The staff address comes amid continuing rumours that Vivendi Chairman Jean-Marie Messier is keen to put his stamp on Canal and that Lescure's days at Canal's helm could be numbered. 

Lescure is a chief operating officer at Vivendi Universal and is in charge of its television and film businesses. 

De Greef said Lescure was the man in charge at Canal. 

""I can say clearly that it is Pierre Lescure who organises Canal Plus. Of course he keeps Jean-Marie Messier informed but, without doubt, Pierre Lescure is the one who decides the shape that his group will have in the next few years,"" he said. 

""It is clear that I have neither been dismissed, as certain newspapers said a few weeks ago, nor transferred as the Figaro said this morning,"" de Greef said in the statement, which consisted of extracts of comments he made to Canal's editorial and programming staff on Tuesday morning. 

Daily Le Figaro said on Tuesday that de Greef and Michel Thoulouze, director of Canal's international businesses and of head of its theme channel unit Multithematiques, were to be the first victims of Messier's quest to get a grip on Canal. 

""After occupying the post of director of programmes for 16 years... Alain de Greef has been invited to leave his job,"" the newspaper said, adding that he would become responsible for Multithematiques without becoming its chairman. 

It said Lescure last Saturday told the current Mutlithematiques chairman, Michel Thoulouze, that his services were no longer required. 
 
"	1	4	1	5	0	1			1	4.5
79	France	1999	26	Political	"PARIS, Dec 22 (Reuters) - The Ivory Coast has donated five tonnes of pineapples from its West African shores to lend a tropical touch to the menu at wintry Paris soup kitchens. 

The Ivory Coast embassy in Paris dubbed the gift ""pineapples from the heart"", and said they would be a ray of sunshine for the Paris poor. 
 
TD 
 The pineapples - enough to serve 20,000 people - are being sliced up at six charity restaurants set up to feed the homeless in the Paris area over Christmas and the new year. 

""The pineapples have arrived and we are distributing them,"" said a spokesman for France's Restaurants of the Heart. 

""You always hear that the north feeds the south, but if you look closely, you see that in fact the south feeds the north,"" said embassy spokesman Julien Adhepeau. 

""Africa provides commodities - coffee, cocoa, bananas, petrol, iron - we provide everything that feeds Europe,"" he said on Wednesday. 

A charity based in the Ivory Coast's commercial capital Abidjan paid for the fruit. The embassy said the country exports about 7,000 tonnes of pineapples to Europe each week. 
 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
303	France	1998	30	Political	"PARIS, Dec 15 (Reuters) - French Socialist Prime Minister Lionel Jospin on Tuesday dismissed as baseless speculation rumours that President Jacques Chirac could call an early presidential election next year. 

""Let everyone do his job. The government is trying to do its job. The rest will come in time,"" Jospin told RTL radio in an interview. 
 
TD 
 ""The rest is as of today baseless speculation and I will not dwell on it,"" he said when asked about the rumours in political circles and the media that the conservative Chirac might be tempted to cut his seven-year term by two years. 

Jospin, Chirac's likely rival for the presidency, said he favoured cutting the presidential term to five years from seven. 

But he refused to be drawn further on the issue. ""I do not want to discuss this issue in my current position because I could be seen as having hidden thoughts and I don't have any,"" he said. 

As the right emerges from the disarray that followed its general election rout a year-and-a-half ago and Jospin's reform drive has become bogged down in parliament, Chirac has gone on the offensive again. 

His buoyant mood has triggered speculation that he might call an early general election or an early presidential poll after next June's elections to the European Parliament. 

Mainstream conservative parties are also being buoyed by a struggle for power tearing apart the far-right National Front. 

Jean-Marie Le Pen's National Front has helped the left in recent elections by dividing the right-wing vote. 

Jospin said the crisis in the far-right was likely to split the National Front and that was good news for democracy. 

""If it is good news for democracy, it is good news for the Socialists,"" he said. 

 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
314	France	1990	30	Corporate	"PARIS, Dec 12, Reuter - The world's largest computer software publishers announced on Wednesday they had brought copyright violation lawsuits against divisions of Rhone-Poulenc of France and General Electric Co Plc of Britain. 

Microsoft Corp, Lotus Development Corp and Ashton-Tate Corp, all U.S.-based, said they had jointly filed suit against Rhone-Poulenc's Films division seeking five million french francs (one million dollars) in damages for piracy of their software programmes. 
 
TD 
 The three companies, along with WordPerfect Corp, also filed the first lawsuit in Britain for software piracy against Marconi Instruments Ltd, a unit of GEC, but did not disclose the amount of damages they were seeking. 

Both actions were taken after court-ordered searches of the companies' offices last month following tip-offs, software officials told a news conferences. 

The lawsuits are part of a concerted campaign by the Business Software Alliance (BSA), whose eight U.S. members are responsible for two-thirds of the world's personal computer software sales. 

The Alliance estimates that illegal copying in Europe cost the software industry 5.7 billion dollars in lost revenues this year. 

BSA managing director Robert Holleyman said that the group will proceed with other legal action in Europe between now and next spring. 

A spokesman for Rhone-Poulenc said the company is in the process of supplying proof of the origins of its software in response to the lawsuit. 

He said that if it were proved that there software copying at the Films factory, a policy being implemented throughout the group should prevent it from happening again. 

The Alliance was formed in 1988 by the American software publishers responsible for virtually all of the world's best selling programmes for personal computers, including Lotus's 1-2-3 spreadsheet, Microsoft's MS-DOS operating system and Ashton-Tate's dBase data base manager. 

The Alliance was formed to fight software piracy, the practice of copying a programme without paying royalties in violation of the copyrights, and has pushed for greater protection of Software in the European Community and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. 

Officials of the Alliance told the new conference that they are losing more than 300 million pounds (585 million dollars) a year in Britain and nearly four billion francs in France from illegal copying of their programs, nearly twice as much as the revenues earned from actual sales in those countries. 

The companies tracked down the alleged pirated copies with a computer disc that can identify copied software in a matter of minutes once it is put into a computer, the officials said. 

""We have the technical means to check all micro-computers... no one can hide from us,"" said Hugues Leblanc, chairman of the French Association of Software Editors. 

The Alliance also announced out of court settlements of lawsuits filed in October 1989 against Banque Paribas, a unit of Cie Financiere de Paribas, and Telediffusion de France. 
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
129	France	1999	31	Political	"PARIS, Dec 17 (Reuters) - Moroccan businessman Steve Ohana has been placed under investigation by a French magistrate for suspected money laundering and running illegal banking services, a judicial source said on Friday. 

He added that Fouad Filali, son of a former Moroccan prime minister and an old friend of Ohana, had been questioned as a witnesses to the case but stressed that he was not under investigation himself. 
 
TD 
 A police source said Filali, until last year the chairman of Morocco's biggest private conglomerate ONA Group, was believed to have been a victim of alleged financial malpractice. 

The judicial source said two other men were also under formal investigation in the case - Henri Benhamou, who was suspected of money laundering, and David Cohen, suspected of complicity in the misappropriation of funds. 

Being placed under investigation is one step short of being formally charged and does not automatically lead to trial. 

French magistrate Philippe Couroye, an expert in cases of financial fraud, was running the investigation, the judicial source said. 

Ohana comes from a wealthy, Casablanca-based family. 

 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
312	France	2004	33	Corporate	"PARIS, Dec 10 (Reuters) - French power demand during peak daylight hours next week was forecast on Friday to edge up by less than one percent or 700 megawatts (MW) to 77,800 MW due to mild winter weather. 

French grid operator RTE said in its website forecast for the week starting Dec. 11 that average noon temperatures were expected to rise from 0.7 degrees Celsius below normal on Friday to 1.7 degrees above on Tuesday. 
 
TD 
 It said consumption was to rise 100 MW on the lower than usual temperatures and another 600 MW due to the seasonal trend of higher demand. 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
99	France	2009	38	Corporate	"PARIS, Dec 14 (Reuters) - A strike that has paralysed a Paris subway line, reputed to be the busiest in Europe, looked certain to spread to another transport link in the French capital, unions said on Monday.

The RER A line, which carries more than a million people a day from distant suburbs to the heart of Paris, has been severely disrupted by a strike since last Thursday.
 
TD 
 Unions are demanding a bonus of up to 150 euros ($220) a month for working the busy route.

Drivers on the RER B line, which connects other suburbs as well as Paris's main Roissy airport to the city centre, have voted to join the action from Tuesday, union officials said.

The public body that oversees the capital's saturated transport network said only one out of every two trains were running on the RER A during Monday's rush hour, with no service between 9.30 a.m. and 4.30 p.m, nor in the evening.

French Transport Minister Dominique Bussereau has called the situation ""unacceptable"" and has urged more talks between unions and employers. 

Transport managers want to link any bonuses to performance but drivers say it is impossible to meet tight timetable schedules given the huge crush of passengers and repeated technology and security problems. (Reporting by Gerard Bon; Writing by Crispian Balmer)
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
12	France	1997	44	Political	"PARIS, Dec 18 (Reuters) - Princess Diana thought motherhood was her greatest joy but suggested she was too old to have more children, according to an interview published on Friday over four months after her death. 

Paris Match magazine said its interview with Diana and her millionaire companion Dodi Al Fayed was conducted in the south of France shortly before they died in a high-speed car crash in Paris on August 30. 
 
TD 
 The interview was published one day before Dodi's bodyguard Trevor Rees-Jones, the only survivor of the crash in a Paris road tunnel, was due to be questioned by a French magistrate investigating the case. 

""My only moments of real happiness were the births of William and Harry,"" Diana said of her two sons, according to the French text. ""Being a mother in a warm and generous atmosphere is something I did not experience."" 

The magazine gave no reason why publication of the interview had been delayed. 

When the unnamed interviewer asked whether William and Harry could expect to have a little brother or sister one day, Diana, who was 36 at the time of her death, responded: ""Don't you think I'm too old?"" 

In the interview, the princess denied suggestions she planned to move abroad, saying her boys needed her nearby. 

""I said I would move abroad if the pressure from the media did not stop. I need people to respect my private life, otherwise I feel I will soon not be myself anymore. 

""I wanted to do it and I said it ... but I won't do it,"" she added. ""William and Harry are in school in England and they need me as much as I need them ... So I won't move abroad. Maybe I'll travel more so that people forget me a bit."" 

The ""People's Princess,"" as she was dubbed by some after her death, said she and Dodi were planning some humanitarian projects together. 

""Mohammad Al Fayed, Dodi's father, would like to contribute part of his fortune to humanitarian work to help children and old people,"" she said. ""We are now considering how to give shape to this project."" 

The interviewer did not directly ask Diana if she planned to marry her Egyptian-born friend, but Dodi brought up the subject himself. 

""I've never experienced such harmony,"" he said of his romance with Diana. ""My dream ... why not finally make a love marriage out of this? The interviewer added in brackets: ""Diana lowers her eyes and smiles."" 

At another point in the interview, she said: ""My feelings for Dodi are profound and I believe his are sincere."" 

The princess complained bitterly about being under the spotlight of the senationalist press. 

""Whatever I do, whatever I say is twisted,"" she said. ""For 16 years, they've been analysing my life in order to criticise it better. I can stand it but I regret it. I didn't know when I entered this family that what was natural would seem so suspicious to these permanent observers of your acts and gestures."" 

""It's clear I feel closer to simple people than to high society. One learns a lot more about oneself and about life by visiting a slum than by feeling useless in an icy palace."" 

Asked why she felt this way, the princess responded: ""Must one really ask why someone prefers to dedicate her time to humanitarian causes than wasting it on the sidelines of a polo field?"" 

 
"	5	4	5	4	0	0			5	4
348	France	1996	52	Political	"PARIS, Dec 19 (Reuter) - Ex-film star Brigitte Bardot faced accusations in court on Thursday of inciting racial hatred for writing in a newspaper that France was being invaded by Moslems. 

The former sex symbol, who has come under fire for backing the far right, was due to make a rare public appearance in the Paris court later in the day to answer charges brought by the Movement Against Racism and Antisemitism and for Peace (MRAP). 
 
TD 
 In an opinion column in the conservative daily Le Figaro last April, the outspoken ex-actress turned animal rights activist denounced in unusually strong terms the ritual slaughter of sheep for the Moslem festival of Aid al-Kebir. 

""Tens of thousands of poor beasts whose throats are slit...with blades that are more or less sharpened, by clumsy sacrificers who have to repeat their gesture several times while kids splashed with blood bathe in this magma of terror, of blood squirting from badly-slit jugulars,"" she wrote. 

She went on to launch a direct attack on immigrants from France's former North African colonies. 

""We have to submit against our will to this Moslem overflow. From year to year, we see mosques blossom across France, while our church bells fall silent because of a lack of priests,"" she wrote. 

Labelling herself ""a Frenchwoman of old stock"" and recalling her grandfather and father's battles against German invaders in two world wars, Bardot raised the possibility of going into exile if authorities failed to respond to her grievances. 

""Could I be forced in the near future to flee my country which has turned into a bloody and violent country, to turn expatriate...by myself becoming an emigrant?"" she asked. 

MRAP branded her statement ""genuine incitement to racial hatred"", an offence under French law. 

""We are entitled to ask whether this woman animal defender could be ill, not with ""mad cow' disease, but with the lethal disease that is called racism,"" it said. 

Bardot, who abruptly retired from acting in 1972 married a supporter of far-right National Front leader Jean-Marie Le Pen, who advocates sending home four million mostly North African immigrants. 

In recently published memoirs, Bardot voiced deep bitterness at the entertainment world and said her life was now fully devoted to the defence of animals. 

She also praised Le Pen as a pleasant, cultured man. 

Le Pen, who won 15 percent of the vote in last year's presidential election, recently caused an outcry for saying that racial inequality was a fact of life. Prime Minister Alain Juppe described him as deeeply racist and anti-semitic. 

 
"	5	3	5	2	0	1			5	2.5
102	France	1992	67	Corporate	"PARIS, Nov 27, Reuter - Jean-Luc Lagardere would like Raymond Levy, the former chairman of car maker Renault, to head the supervisory board of the holding company for the future Matra-Hachette, a spokesman for Lagardere said. 

Lagardere is the chairman of both defence group Matra and media company Hachette, which are due to merge at the end of the year to form a group with about 50,000 employees and 53 billion francs in annual turnover. 
 
TD 
 Levy, who retired as Renault chairman in June, will be named to the supervisory board in any case, but it will be up to the full 15-member board to elect a president, the spokesman said. 

Levy has agreed to join the supervisory board, a decision the spokesman called a vote of confidence in the future of Matra. 

Regie Nationale des Usines Renault and Matra cooperate in the design and production of the successful ""Espace"" family van. 

The holding company will be called Lagardere Groupe. It will be structured as a limited partnership with Lagardere himself as the managing partner. 

 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
104	Germany	2007	1	Political	"BERLIN, Dec 31 (Reuters) - German Chancellor Angela Merkel said in her New Year's Eve address to be broadcast later on Monday that cutting unemployment and pushing ahead with further economic reforms will remain top priorities in 2008. 

Merkel said the economy was running strong, with more than a million jobs created since she took office two years ago, according to an advance text of her address. 
 
TD 
 ""There's been a perceptible upturn in Germany,"" she said, adding that a period of long standstill had finally been overcome. ""We've seen that the efforts are paying off. The country is in better shape in 2007 than it was in 2005."" 

But Merkel added: ""Despite the successes there's no scope to relax. There are risks for our economy and growth, especially from international influences."" 

She said her grand coalition still had to tackle reform of inheritance tax. The government would also have to keep in mind the 3.5 million jobless when looking for solutions to a dispute over a possible minimum wage and supplemental wage costs. (Writing by Erik Kirschbaum, editing by Mike Peacock) 
 
"	5	1	5	1	0	0			5	1
374	Germany	2002	3	Corporate	"FRANKFURT, Dec 30 (Reuters) - Deutsche Telekom AG (DTEGn.DE) said on Monday it had sold 1.1 billion euros ($1.15 billion) worth of real estate assets during the fourth quarter of 2002 as part of a drive to cut its 64 billion euro debt pile. 

The German telecoms giant said total real estate sales during 2002 came to 1.7 billion euros as it pushed ahead with plans to bring debt down to some 50 billion euros through a combination of asset sales and efficiency savings. 
 
TD 
 Added to the 700 million euros raised from real estate sales last year, the total raised from the sales amounted to 2.4 billion euros, Deutsche Telekom said in a statement. 

Recently appointed Chief Executive Kai-Uwe Ricke has announced plans to sell non-core assets worth up to 8.5 billion euros to reach its goal of cutting debt to three times core earnings of between 16.7-17.7 billion euros by the end of 2003. 

Earlier this month, Deutsche Telekom raised some 732 million euros by selling a 10 percent stake in its T-Online (TOIGn.DE) Internet unit to investors. 

It also sold its 10.87 percent stake in satellite operator Eutelsat and has been reported to be close to selling both its cable TV assets and French fixed-network unit Siris. 
 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
281	Germany	2009	7	Corporate	"FRANKFURT, Dec 26 (Reuters) - The chief executive of Scania is sceptical about any merger with its German truck rival MAN SE , according to an interview with a German newspaper.

""It is currently unrealistic to achieve synergies of 1 billion euros or even 500 million euros in a merger between MAN and Scania,"" Leif Oestling told the Sunday edition of Welt am Sonntag in comments released a day earlier.
 
TD 
 The newspaper said he was interviewed in November before MAN reorganised its top management.

MAN named a new chief executive and other board members on Dec. 11 barely three weeks after three of its top executives, including CEO Hakan Samuelsson, left the company.

The executives' departure has fuelled speculation that Volkswagen would make a bid for the German truckmaker.

Volkswagen Chairman Ferdinand Piech, who is also chairman of MAN, has hinted this year that MAN is on his radar screen as he tries to revive plans for a three-way truck alliance with Swedish unit Scania . [ID:nGEE5AM25Z] [ID:nGEE5B01FJ]

VW holds around 70 percent voting rights in Scania and 29.9 percent in MAN, which in turn owns a 17 percent stake in its Swedish rival. Oestling told Welt am Sonntag any merger with MAN would make little sense from an industrial point of view and that it could damage the MAN and Scania brands.

Commenting on the overall truck sector, he said: ""I expect that we have already reached the bottom"" but that ""new record levels in the truck market would only be reached between 2015 and 2020."" (Reporting by Marilyn Gerlach)
 
"	1	3	1	4	0	1			1	3.5
200	Germany	1998	14	Corporate	"FRANKFURT, Dec 23 (Reuters) - Software group SAP AG said on Wednesday that it would take over a research centre in Karlsruhe with 20 employees that previously belonged to Digital Equipment Corp. 

In a statement, SAP did not disclose a price for the CEC Karlsruhe but said the deal comes as part of Compaq Computer Corp's consolidation of Digital Equipment Corp. 
 
TD 
 Compaq took over Digital earlier this year and is working to cut 17,000 jobs worldwide, including up to 5,000 in Europe and about 800 from Digital's German unit. 

CEC Karlsruhe was involved in developing interactive kiosk systems, video archives and Internet commerce software. 

""The specific knowledge about distributed systems, Internet and innovative learning technologies is of very high value to us,"" said Karl-Heinz Hess, a member of SAP's management board. 

((Frankfurt Newsroom +49 69 756525, frankfurt.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
186	Germany	2002	20	Political	"BERLIN, Dec 20 (Reuters) - Germany and France made joint proposals on Friday for reforming the way economic policy is coordinated in an enlarged European Union. 

In a submission to the EU's reform convention, the two traditional motors of European integration proposed giving the European Commission more powers to police budget policies, and ending countries' right to veto all EU tax legislation. 
 
TD 
 They also called for the informal ""Eurogroup"" of euro zone finance ministers to be recognised as an EU institution. 

""France and Germany seek a way to achieve closer coordination of economic policies in the EU, and especially in the euro area, in order to promote economic growth in Europe and to reinforce the weight of Europe,"" a two-page paper published on the German finance ministry website said. 

The joint proposals underline the new-found willingness of Berlin and Paris to work together on EU issues ahead of the 40th anniversary of their bilateral Elysee cooperation treaty in January. 

The paper stopped short of challenging the EU's existing division of labour between the European Central Bank, European Commission and EU finance ministers. But it said with the EU set to expand there was a pressing need to ""reinforce"" the Eurogroup and the ""decision-making capacity of the euro area"". 

It suggested that the Eurogroup, an informal body created in 1997 ahead of the launch of economic and monetary union, should be recognised in an annex to the EU's founding treaties and be able to take decisions on budgetary policy and other issues. 

The group should also be headed by an elected president on a two-year term, ending the current system of rotation in line with the six-monthly cycle of EU presidencies. 

On budgetary policy, the paper said the Commission should be able to issue ""early warnings"" to countries at risk of breaching the EU's three percent of gross domestic product limit on budget deficits. 

But it said EU or euro zone finance ministers should continue to have the final say over policy recommendations addressed to governments. 

On tax, France and Germany repeated a joint call first made in 2000 for more majority voting in tax issues related to the functioning of the EU's internal market. 

They also repeated their view that the euro zone should eventually obtain single representation in international organisations like the International Monetary Fund, but did not suggest when or how this should be achieved. 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
473	Germany	1991	20	Corporate	"FRANKFURT, Dec 13, Reuter - Ford-Werke AG und Co Leasing KG appointed Deutsche Bank AG arranger of a 500 million mark commercial paper programme that will enable the issuer to draw funds with maturities of seven days to just under two years. 

A Deutsche Bank statement said that the paper will be placed by Deutsche Bank, Dresdner Bank AG, and Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale. There are no listing plans for the paper, it said. 
 
TD 
 The issuer acts as sales financing unit of Ford-Werke AG, the German subsidiary of U.S. automaker Ford Motor Co. 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
57	Germany	1995	30	Political	"BERLIN, Nov 30 (Reuter) - The manslaughter trial of East Germany's last hardline communist leaders was on Thursday suspended until January 15 to allow one of the accused to undergo a kidney operation. 

East Germany's last hardline communist leaader Egon Krenz and five former Politburo colleagues are on trial over the killing of Cold War refugees trying to flee West across the Berlin Wall and the fortified border between the two Germanys. 
 
TD 
 But the three-week-old proceedings have so far failed to get beyond procedural matters because of a series of defence objections. 

Judge Josef Hoch accepted a defence request for a suspension to allow former Politburo economics expert Guenther Kleiber to undergo an urgent operation for a kidney tumour which would make him unable to attend court for at least three weeks. 

The defence had previously held up the trial with a successful application to remove the original presiding judge, Hansgeorg Braeutigam, for bias and with a failed application to abort the trial because of a lack of reserve judges. 

The defendants face 47 charges of manslaughter and 24 of attempted manslaughter for what the prosecution considers to be their political responsibility for the shoot-to-kill order at the border between the Germanys. 

Krenz's other co-defendants include Kurt Hager, a hardliner who rejected Mikhail Gorbachev's brand of reform communism, and Guenter Schabowski, the former Politburo spokesman who was also head of the party's East Berlin section. 

Horst Dohlus, the Politburo's head of organisation, and Erich Mueckenberger, the party's parliamentary group chief, complete the line-up. 

 
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
365	Germany	1997	40	Corporate	" FRANKFURT, Dec 18 (Reuters) - Metallgesellschaft AG said on Thursday its trading subsidiary MG Handel & Beteiligungen (MG Handel) plans to buy Chemag AG, a chemicals trading company, from BASF AG with effect from January 1. 

The price was not disclosed. 
 
TD 
 MG Handel would buy all shares in Chemag and operate it as an independent entity. Chemag, which mainly trades organic and inorganic chemicals, has 120 employees, sales of about 500 million marks ($281.8 million) and locations in Austria, France, Russia, South Africa and the United States. 

The deal still requires approval by the two companies' supervisory boards and anti-trust agencies. 

The takeover would mark another step in MG Handel's efforts to expand operations, especially into international areas. Two weeks ago said it planned to buy distributor Kloeckner Chemiehandel GmbH for an undisclosed sum. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
483	Germany	2002	40	Corporate	"FRANKFURT, Dec 20 (Reuters) - Deutsche Bank, which is shedding industrial holdings and cutting non-core businesses, said on Friday it had halved its stake in Suedzucker, leaving it with 4.8 percent of the German sugar group. 

Deutsche said in a statement it had generated proceeds of 160 million euros ($163.8 million) from the deal, more than half of which would be booked as profit. 
 
TD 
 The move follows a stream of disposals of equity holdings and non-core units since Josef Ackermann took over at the top of Germany's biggest bank in May. 

Ackermann moved quickly to take advantage of the removal of capital gains tax on the sales of corporate holdings earlier this year to pare Deutsche's portfolio. 

Deutsche is using the money to buy back its own depressed stock, underpin earnings hit by bad debts and equity writedowns, and to invest in more profitable businesses in a bid to boost its market value, which has fallen by 42 percent so far this year. 

Since then it has underperformed the DJ Stoxx pan-European index of banking stocks by more than 22 percent. 

Shares in Suedzucker, which is listed on the mid-cap segment, rose 3.66 percent to 15.30 euros at the open while Deutsche Bank traded flat at 45.86 euros. 

Previously Deutsche Bank held a 10.9 percent stake in the sugar group. 

It sold 4.5 percent to a subsidiary of Austrian-based Raiffeisen-Holding, bringing its Suedzucker stake to 10 percent, and 1.6 percent to Zuckerruebenverwertungs-Genossenschaft, which brings its stake to 56 percent. 

Suedzucker said in a separate statement its freefloat would increase to 33 percent from 28 percent as a result of the deal. 
 
"	1	2	1	1	0	1			1	1.5
127	Germany	1994	45	Political	"FRANKFURT, Nov 19 (Reuter) - Andre Agassi went perilously close to being thrown out of the ATP Tour world tennis championship for bad behaviour in a 4-6 7-6 6-3 defeat by world number one Pete Sampras in the semifinals on Saturday. 

Agassi was warned for arguing with umpire Rudi Berger in the second set and later deducted a point for smashing a ball against an advertising board at the back of the court after he had lost a game. 

A third offence would have meant a default from the tournament. The American could have gone out if Berger had decided to take action against Agassi for throwing his racket aggressively off court. 

Agassi refused to shake hands with Berger after the match and waved his racket aggressively at the German official. 

""I'll send him a Christmas card if he promises never to do another match of mine,"" he said. ""You are damn right I did not shake hands with him."" 

But Berger was in fact lenient with the U.S. Open champion who lost control of his temper when he was under pressure at the end of the second set. 

Agassi, who played some superb tennis to take the first set, started arguing about line calls and was first warned by Berger for verbal abuse when he faced three set points at 6-5 down. Agassi managed to save the points and force the tiebreak. 

But, after he lost the tiebreak 7-5 he tossed his racket aggressively across the court. Berger talked to the American but decided to take no further action. 

However, when Sampras broke his serve in the first game of the third set, Agassi hit a ball in anger against the advertising board. Berger deducted a point for the next game and called over the tournament referee. 

Agassi was clearly angered that Berger had over-ruled a few calls from his linesmen. 

""You know, somebody needed to give an umpire a freaking warning out there, "" Agassi said. ""They just sit up there and then, you know, you are the one with everything on the line."" 

""I mean, I was doing my best to coach him. `Hey just keep score out here. Nobody is going to complain. The linesman have a better sight on it than you do so let the calls play'."" 

Agassi was never really the same player in the third set. The world number two said he was disappointed by the fact he had let the argument upset his game. Part of Agassi's recent return to form has been linked to a stronger mental attitude. 

""I am disappointed in myself mentally today because I feel like I never should have let that get the best of me,"" he said. ""You should be above it and you should be able to say okay, it didn't go my way but you have got to turn it around."" 

Sampras, who won the tournament in 1991, added: ""He lost his cool...I could tell he was steaming inside. He was never the same in the third set as he was in the first set. He was a bit deflated and I took advantage."" 

"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
111	Germany	2002	51	Corporate	"BERLIN, Dec 19 (Reuters) - Germany's top court said on Thursday it had rejected an appeal to temporarily block the planned introduction of deposit charges on non-refillable cans and bottles next year. 

The federal administrative court will still make a judgment on the issue of deposits on January 16, 2003. 
 
TD 
 The German government is introducing a deposit of 25 cents for small containers and 50 cents for cans and bottles larger than 1.5 litres from January 1. Deposits are returned when the bottles and cans are disposed of in special recycling machines. 

The government's plans and previous German courts' support for the directive have boosted shares in Norway's Tomra Systems Inc, which makes recycling machines that accept waste bottles and repay the deposits. 

Retailers and beverage manufacturers have long opposed the measure but the government says it is necessary because the percentage of cans and bottles being recycled - typically after being returned to the retailer - has fallen below a 72 percent minimum target set in 1997
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
484	Germany	2002	59	Corporate	"FRANKFURT, Dec 19 (Reuters) - Germany's sole pay-television channel Premiere, part of Leo Kirch's collapsed media empire, has closed movie deals with Hollywood studios Paramount and Columbia to secure years of programming, sources close to the deal said on Thursday. 

Following the insolvency of its parent KirchPayTV, Premiere had to settle disputes over payments and renegotiate expensive movie contracts that had been instrumental in sending Kirch into insolvency earlier this year. 
 
TD 
 The five-year deal with Paramount, a unit of media giant Viacom (VIA.N) (VIAb.N), and the package agreed with Sony's (6758.T) Columbia, come after similar deals with all major studios except Disney (DIS.N), which could follow over the next months, the sources said. 

The movies range from blockbusters including ""Vanilla Sky"" to cult classics such as Guy Ritchie's ""Snatch"", the sources said. Premiere is currently being sold as part of KirchPayTV's insolvency procedure. Private equity firm Permira tops the list of bidders and a deal with Permira could be announced before Christmas, the sources said. 
 
"	1	4	1	3	0	2			1	3.5
252	Germany	1994	62	Political	"FRANKFURT, Nov 17 (Reuter) - Pete Sampras showed why he is rated the best player in the world when he survived a nail-biting clash with Stefan Edberg at the ATP Tour world tennis championship on Thursday. 

Sampras, who lost his opening match to Boris Becker on Wednesday, seemed to be heading out of the tournament after losing the first set 6-4 against former Wimbledon champion Edberg. 
 
TD 
 But the American produced his best tennis in the crucial final set and clinched the round-robin clash in the tie-break 4-6 6-3 7-6 to keep alive his chances of reaching Saturday's semifinals. 

The top two from each of the two groups of four players qualify for the semifinals. Sampras's white group is still wide open. It will not be decided until Friday when Becker meets Edberg and Sampras plays Ivanisevic. 

Sampras and Edberg each have one win and one defeat while Becker has two wins to his credit. Ivanisevic has lost both his opening matches. 

But despite his defeat, Edberg, with the superb form he showed on Thursday, must have a good chance of beating Becker. 

The Swede dropped to ninth in the rankings earlier this month, his lowest standing since October 1985, but has moved up one place since then. 

Edberg served brilliantly at times and produced some of the deadly volleys and passing shots which put him on top of the world in 1990 and 1991. 

Sampras started well, breaking Edberg's serve in the second game. But Edberg hit a brilliant cross-court forehand to break back and narrow the American's lead to 3-2. 

The Swede hit another forehand passing shot to break again in the seventh game and take a 4-3 lead before clinching the set 6-4 with an ace after 28 minutes. 

But Sampras seemed to find his touch in the middle of the second set. He struck a superb passing shot on the run to break Edberg and lead 4-2 and never looked back in the set. 

When the third set went to a tiebreak Sampras was on top of his game, hitting an ace to take a 4-2 lead and clinching the decider 7-3. 

""I told myself not to panic (after the first set),"" Sampras said. ""When I play him it is always decided on a couple of points. I got them."" 

""I was a bit overwhelmed after Boris beat me. The confidence was not there and I had to find it. Fortunately I found it in the middle of the second set."" 

Edberg added: ""Once he got ahead, he played too well. I did not have a chance in the tiebreak. 

""But I still have a chance (to go further). If I play like this, there is no reason why I do not have a chance tomorrow although it will be a difficult match."" 

(c) Reuters Limited 1994 
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
283	Germany	2002	70	Corporate	"FRANKFURT, Dec 17 (Reuters) - German coal firm RAG said on Tuesday its bid to take control of chemicals firm Degussa AG (DGXG.DE) from E.ON AG (EONG.DE) would fail unless the utility's acquisition of Ruhrgas was cleared by the end of January. 

Earlier on Tuesday, a Duesseldorf court upheld an injunction blocking E.ON's 10 billion euro takeover of gas importer Ruhrgas, throwing the future of Degussa into doubt and sending shares in the chemicals firm down over 15 percent. 
 
TD 
 RAG said in a statement the Duesseldorf court had a chance during the main hearing in the case, likely to begin in January, to reject the complaints against the government's clearance of the deal and lift the injunction. 

""In order for RAG to be able to complete its takeover bid for Degussa, such a decision must be taken by the court... in a timely enough way so that the sale of RAG's Ruhrgas stake to E.ON can be completed by January 31, 2003."" 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
144	Germany	2005	76	Political	"BERLIN, Dec 19 (Reuters) - A 43-year-old German woman who was held hostage in Iraq for more than three weeks will not immediately return home to Germany, the foreign ministry said on Monday. 
 
TD 
 ""She wants to spend a few days with her daughter protected from the public and so will probably not immediately return to Germany,"" a foreign ministry spokesman told a news conference. 

""We assume however that she will leave Iraq in the near future,"" he said. 

Archaeologist Susanne Osthoff, a convert to Islam who speaks fluent Arabic, disappeared on Nov. 25. She had spent more than a decade working on excavations in Iraq. 

The gunmen who kidnapped her and her driver threatened to kill them both if Germany did not stop supporting the Iraqi government. 

Osthoff's young daughter lives with friends in Bavaria. The government did not say where the mother and daughter would meet. 

None of her relatives in Bavaria appeared to have talked to her. Osthoff's brother, Robert, told Reuters from his home near Munich that he understood she was at Baghdad airport heading for Germany, but had no official confirmation. 

Her sister had also not spoken with her. ""I have had no contact with her,"" Anja Osthoff told the Koelner Stadt-Anzeiger newspaper. 

""I'm just happy that she survived,"" Anja said. ""One has to respect the fact that she is psychologically in a very different state. She needs to be left alone."" 

There was confusion over the fate of Osthoff's driver. The foreign ministry said they had received assurances from the kidnappers that he would be freed, but he has yet to contact the German embassy. 

The German government has offered scant details about Osthoff after the foreign minister's sudden announcement on Sunday evening that she was in the safe custody of the German embassy in Baghdad. 

On Monday evening several German television stations reported from Baghdad that Osthoff had left the embassy but was still under the protection of embassy staff. 

German politicians have expressed relief that Osthoff was now free, but there is speculation in German media that a ransom was paid to release her. 

The foreign ministry said on Monday that the government and Berlin's embassy in Iraq had been involved in Osthoff's release, but declined to give details. 

Chancellor Angela Merkel, who only took office a month ago, had said the German government would not be ""blackmailed"" by terrorists, but did not give a clear answer when asked if Germany would be prepared to pay a ransom. 

Security experts say Germany has paid ransoms for hostages in the past and would probably have done so for Osthoff. 

This view was seconded by a German diplomat in Berlin, who told Reuters several weeks ago that Osthoff's kidnappers likely wanted a ransom and that the government would not hesitate to pay. 
 
"	5	3	5	3	0	0		1	5	3
416	Germany	2007	79	Political	"BERLIN, Dec 10 (Reuters) - Germany has granted early release to two men given life prison sentences for the 1992 assassination of a group of dissident Kurdish leaders despite protests from Israel, German officials said on Monday. 

The office of Germany's Chief Federal Prosecutor Monika Harms decided in October there was no legal reason to delay the release of Iranian Kazem Darabi and his Lebanese accomplice, Abbas Rhayel. 
 
TD 
 German government officials who spoke on condition of anonymity told Reuters both men had been released and were being flown out of the country. 

Israeli authorities have long believed Lebanon's militant Hezbollah movement could have information on missing Israeli pilot Ron Arad's fate and hoped Darabi could help in solving the case, Israeli and German media have reported. 

The government of Israel and the family of Arad, who went missing over Lebanon in 1986, had asked German Chancellor Merkel to delay the release of the two men. Germany's Foreign Ministry has denied any deal was made with Iran that led to the release of Darabi and Rhayel. 

Darabi and Rhayel were convicted in 1997 for killing the four Kurds after having spent five years in investigative custody before and during the trial. The court said at the time they would spend a quarter of a century in jail. 

Prosecutors in the long trial infuriated Tehran and strained bilateral relations by saying Iran's supreme religious leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei had ordered the killings and President Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani had approved them. 

The Islamic Republic has always denied responsibility for the killings. 

Earlier this year German media reported Tehran had conditioned the release of a German man imprisoned for over a year for fishing in Iranian waters on Darabi's release. Tehran released the German fisherman in March. (Reporting by Louis Charbonneau; Editing by Michael Winfrey) 
 
"	1	4	1	5	0	1			1	4.5
390	Germany	1997	84	Corporate	"FRANKFURT, Dec 10 (Reuters) - Lufthansa AG, following the lead of rival European airlines, said on Wednesday it has revamped its international first and business class services at a cost of more than 250 million marks. 

The German airline said the new service, available from mid-January, offers new seats with more legroom which will also double as a bed. The move will reduce first and business class capacity on international flights by 2.5 percent. 
 
TD 
 Fredrick Reid, president of Lufthansa's passenger airline unit, said anticipated higher demand for the new service will offset any revenue losses. 

""Passengers are flying longer distances and spending longer periods of time in airplanes,"" Reid told a news conference. ""They are looking for more quality."" 

Other European carriers, such as Air France and British Airways, have improved their first and business class cabins to attract high-paying business travellers. 

Lufthansa said passenger numbers on long-haul routes had grown strongly with overall passenger traffic to North America during the first nine months of 1997 up 22 percent compared with the same period in 1996. 

First and business class travel on Lufthansa was also expanding with passenger levels to Africa up 19.5 percent. Travel in first and business to South America was up by 16.1 percent and to North America by 13.4 percent. 

About 20 percent of Lufthansa passengers travel first or business class but they account for 40 percent of ticket revenues. 

The new seating will mostly be installed by summer 1998, the airline said. 

Lufthansa is set to unveil a new long-haul service for economy class passengers next winter. 

 
"	1	3	1	2	0	1			1	2.5
280	Germany	2005	98	Political	"BERLIN, Dec 14 (Reuters) - Germany said on Wednesday that Britain's lastest proposal has not hurt the chances of reaching a long-term budget for the European Union but the real negotiations will start at an EU summit on Thursday. 

""I would say it doesn't go in the wrong direction,"" German Chancellor Angela Merkel told a news conference after talks with German state premiers. 
 
TD 
 ""But whether we get an agreement or not has not become more or less likely. The real negotiations are still to come, but the outlook has not deteriorated through today's second British proposal,"" she said. 

Merkel said Germany, the EU's traditional paymaster, was interested in seeing a budget for 2007-13 but ""there can't be an agreement at any price"". 
 
"	4	1	4	1	0	0			4	1
68	India	2001	3	Corporate	"NEW DELHI, Dec 28 (Reuters) - Unit Trust of India (UTI), the country's largest mutual fund manager, has raised the ceiling on the number of units of its flagship scheme that it repurchases at a guaranteed price, the government said on Friday. 

A finance ministry statement said state-run UTI will repurchase up to 5,000 units of its Unit Scheme-64 or US-64, the country's largest mutual fund with assets of an estimated 110 billion rupees ($2.3 billion). 
 
TD 
 The move extends a scheme giving investors guaranteed returns which was introduced in the face of popular pressure and which has been partly funded by the government. 

The current repurchase cap is 3,000 units, and nearly half the scheme's 20 million investors own less than this amount. 

In July, UTI announced a guaranteed repurchase price for up to 3,000 units, starting at 10 rupees per unit in August, with a rise of 0.10 rupees every month until May 2003, when it will touch 12 rupees. The price for December is 10.40 rupees. 

It made this announcement in response to a national outcry that met a decision to freeze repurchase of units in US-64 after the equity-heavy scheme faced severe redemption pressure between April and June following a a stock market slide. 

Its then chairman was forced to resign under pressure from angry investors and demands in parliament from the opposition, which accused the government of mismanagement. 

Before July, UTI was repurchasing US-64 units at an arbitrary price set every month. It was not obliged to announce the net asset value, or market value per unit, of the scheme. 

But Friday's move dismayed analysts, who say it would result in burdening the exchequer as a higher number of units will now come under the guaranteed return scheme. 

""This move virtually allows guaranteed returns,"" said Dhirendra Kumar, managing director at fund-tracking firm Value Research. ""US-64 will remain a liability on the government as it will continue to fund the deficit."" 

""I think the government is still reluctant to embrace the reality that fund investors should clearly be a part of all gains and losses."" 

The government has decided to reimburse UTI for the around 1.40 billion rupees it spent between August and November on repurchasing US-64 units at the guaranteed price, a finance ministry official said. (US$1 = 48.26 Indian rupees). 
 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
490	India	2004	9	Political	"NEW DELHI, Aug 10 (Reuters) - The Indian cabinet recommended on Tuesday the scrapping of a controversial anti-terrorism law that critics said could be used to settle political scores. 

The Prevention Of Terrorism Act (POTA) has been dogged by controversy since the previous government led by the Bharatiya Janata Party passed it two years ago following complaints that it was being used in cases not warranting its use. 
 
TD 
 The Congress party, which heads the ruling United Progressive Alliance that came to power earlier this year, had promised to repeal the law in its election agenda. 

""The cabinet took a major decision today. It is to repeal POTA as per the promise made in the national Common Minimum Programme of the United Progressive Alliance,"" Information and Broadcasting Minister Jaipal Reddy told reporters. 

The act will now go to parliament to be repealed. 

POTA sets strict new rules for arrest, interrogation and investigation and allows suspects to be detained for 30 days without producing them before a court. 

The previous government had said it needed the law to fight insurgents in Jammu and Kashmir and revolts in the northeast. 

But human rights groups raised fears it might be used to harass minorities or target government opponents. 

Last year, the BJP government ordered a review of the tough law, saying a review committee would focus on ensuring POTA was used only for fighting terrorism and not ordinary criminals.
 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
239	India	2003	30	Political	"NEW DELHI, Aug 20 (Reuters) - India's Bharatiya Janata Party-led coalition easily defeated a no confidence vote moved by the opposition, as widely expected. 

The government won the vote, sponsored by the main opposition Congress party which accused the coalition of incompetence, 312 votes to 186 after a two-day debate that ended late on Tuesday. 
 
TD 
 Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee's coalition of two-dozen parties was never really in danger because it has 323 of the 545 seats in the lower house of parliament. 

""We have been elected by the people and will remain in power as long as the people want us to,"" Vajpayee told parliament. 

Opposition parties had said they knew the vote could not oust Vajpayee's 46-month-old government, but they aimed to highlight the government's failures. 

Analysts said the political grandstanding was an effort by the opposition to embarrass the BJP and set the stage for fierce contests in key state elections this year. 
 
"	1	4	1	3	0	1			1	3.5
391	India	1992	33	Political	"NEW DELHI, Aug 18, Reuter - India's parliament on Tuesday approved a resolution extending federal rule in the troubled state of Jammu and Kashmir for a further six months. 

Home Minister Shankarrao Chavan said in the Rajya Sabha (upper house) that elections would be held in the Himalayan state if the situation improved by then. 
 
TD 
 The Lok Sabha, or lower house, last Wednesday passed the resolution extending New Delhi's direct rule over the state for another six months from September 3. 

Kashmir has been under New Delhi's direct rule since January 1990 when separatist militants stepped up a campaign for independence. More than 7,000 people have been killed since then. 

India accuses Pakistan of arming and training Kashmiri militants, a charge Islamabad denies. 

India and Pakistan have fought three wars since both became independent of Britain in 1947, two of them over Kashmir -- which is now split between them with India controlling two-thirds and Pakistan holding the rest.
 
"	1	3	1	2	0	1			1	2.5
422	India	1991	34	Political	"NEW DELHI, Aug 14, Reuter - Pressure is mounting on Sonia Gandhi to step on to India's political stage, but the widow of assassinated former premier Rajiv Gandhi is keeping the country guessing. 

Her public silence has plunged India into an orgy of speculation over whether she is about to launch her own political career and what impact that might have. 
 
TD 
 She speaks rarely to journalists and those who have been in contact with her have different impressions of what she will do. 

Some say Italian-born Gandhi, 44, has decided to run for Amethi, the parliamentary constituency her late husband won posthumously after his assassination on May 21. 

Politicians also have different ideas about her intentions. ""She will go to Amethi on August 20 and announce she's going to run,"" said one senior member of the Congress party, which the Nehru dynasty ran for decades until Rajiv Gandhi's assassination by a woman suicide bomber. He would have been 47 on August 20. 

""It's still a little uncertain, but if she does decide to run, it won't be as early as that,"" said another senior Congress member who was close to Rajiv Gandhi. 

""She hasn't made up her mind and my impression is that she will decide against it,"" a long-time family friend said. 

No one doubts Gandhi would win Amethi in the critically important northern state of Uttar Pradesh, where Congress was almost wiped out in the elections that put it back in power as a minority government in June. 

The pressure is enormous on her to run there. She campaigned hard for her husband in Amethi and Congress leaders said after his death they would accept no other candidate but her in the by-election, for which no date has been set. 

Each day hundreds go to Gandhi's heavily guarded New Delhi home to pay their respects. 

Some urge her to take up politics so she can continue the line of prime ministers of independent India that began with Jawaharlal Nehru and was maintained with his daughter Indira Gandhi and grandson Rajiv Gandhi. 

A vociferous minority in Congress organises delegations to urge her to run for parliament, promising support for a challenge to the leadership of Prime Minister Narasimha Rao. 

Some are genuine believers in continuing the dynasty. Others, say their enemies in Congress, seek to use the magic of the Gandhi name to enhance or preserve their careers. 

Sonia Gandhi is torn, friends say. 

""She doesn't want to get into power politics but she wants to keep Amethi to keep the option (of entering politics) open for the children,"" one said. 

Neither her son Rahul, 21, nor daughter Priyanka, 19, have said whether they intend to enter politics. 

Priyanka's calm and poise at her father's funeral -- and her physical resemblance to Indira Gandhi -- aroused speculation she will. 

In India, a parliamentary candidate must be 25, adding to pressure on Sonia Gandhi to keep the seat open for Priyanka. 

If she does decide to run in Amethi and enters parliament, there seems to be no way she can avoid becoming embroiled in the eternal Congress power struggles. The Nehru dynasty managed to stay on top by undermining anyone who appeared a likely challenger. 

""She would be a very destructive influence because she will become an alternate power centre in the party and erode Narasimha Rao's already delicate position,"" said independent analyst and veteran Congress watcher S. Nihal Singh. 

""Anyone unhappy with Narasimha Rao would gravitate to her side,"" he said. 

Apart from those committed to the Gandhi family, there are others unhappy with Rao as he steers India through radical economic reforms. 

They grumble that Rao is throwing overboard the revered Nehru's doctrines by opening the protected economy to the outside world and abolishing bureaucratic regulations. 

""Sonia's presence in parliament could split Congress,"" Singh said. 

Some senior Congress members agree. ""It might precipitate what so many have speculated about for so long, a realignment of politics with a split in Congress and the larger part merging with other centrist forces,"" one said. 

Others disagree. 

""The assumption that she's going to have an easy ride within the party is not true,"" said another. ""A lot of MPs don't like the idea of her in parliament and those trying to sell her as a future prime minister have put a lot of backs up."" 
 
"	5	3	5	4	0	1			5	3.5
414	India	2003	52	Political	"NEW DELHI, May 30 (Reuters) - India said on Friday it had deployed nearly 10,000 extra troops to hunt down Muslim rebels hiding in the upper reaches of Kashmir and begun fencing the rugged frontier to stop rebel incursions from Pakistan. 

The reinforcements were being sent to the towering Pir Panjal range inside Indian Kashmir where a large mountain base of guerrillas was destroyed last month. 
 
TD 
 More than 60 rebels were killed in that operation, but officials said there could have been up to 350 militants hiding in a network of mountaintop bunkers. 

""We are deploying eight to 10 battalions of additional troops in that area,"" an Indian army official told Reuters. Each battalion is nearly 1,000 troops. The army does not give details of total numbers of troops deployed to crush the 13-year revolt in Kashmir. 

Indian army engineers have started the first phase of fencing 275 km (170 mile) of the 740-km (460-mile) Line of Control which divides Kashmir between the Indian and Pakistani armies to stop movement of rebels, the official said. Electronic sensors had also been deployed in some places.
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
302	India	1999	58	Corporate	"NEW DELHI, Dec 17 (Reuters) - Outdated laws and delayed policy decisions are hurting India's port privatisation programme, officials and industry representatives said on Friday. 

""A complete restructuring of the Indian Ports Act, 1908, is required to get things moving in the sector,"" P.N. Roy Chowdhury, vice chairman of Gujarat Maritime Board, told a seminar on infrastructure. 
 
TD 
 A senior industry representative said the pace of reforms in the port sector had to be accelerated to meet increasing traffic. 

""...the pace has to be accelerated by way of positive investor friendly port policy initiatives,"" said Nikhil Gandhi, Chairman of Seaking Infrastructure Ltd. 

According to Indian Ports Association, 180 million tonnes of goods were handled by Indian ports in the April-November period. In 1998/99 (April-March) the traffic was 252 million tonnes. 

Gandhi called for corporatisation of all major ports. 

""This will facilitate both qualitative and quantitative improvements in existing major port infrastructure rendering them more efficient, effective and competitive...."" 

India has 11 major ports and allowed private investment in the sector in 1995. 

But only two private sector ports in Pipapav and Adani, both in western state of Gujarat, are operational. P&O of Australia operates a container terminal at Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust in Bombay. 

Gandhi also said labour reforms were important in the sector. 

""Ports should have the freedom to buy out by golden handshake redundant labour...."" ((Surojit Gupta, New Delhi newsroom +91 (11) 301-2024 Fax +91 (11) 301-4043, surojit.gupta@reuters.com)). 

 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
214	India	1993	59	Corporate	"NEW DELHI, Dec 7 (Reuter) - Finance Minister Manmohan Singh told domestic and foreign automobile makers on Tuesday that India is ready to face the challenge of global competition. 

""India accepts the challenge of a global market and is determined to change for the better,"" Singh said at the inauguration of India's largest automobile fair, AutoExpo 93. 
 
TD 
 ""AutoExpo is a symbol of our nation's potential and promise,"" he said, adding that Indian entrepreneurs should shed feelings of inferiority to take on global industrial giants. 

Vinod Doshi, president of the Association of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (AIAM), said India's automobile industry had developed ""the technological capability through technology absorption and in-house research and development to launch new vehicles"". 

The automobile fair, the first in seven years, is being seen by industry leaders as a global launching pad for domestic manufacturers. 

The fair has attracted 600 Indian and foreign companies, including some of the largest in the business like BMW, Daimler-Benz and Peugeot. 

The Indian industry is slowly emerging from a recession lasting 2-1/2 years. Car sales rose 18 percent in the first seven months of 1993/94 (April/March) over the same period last year. 

""India produced two million vehicles (of all kinds) in 1992/93 and this number is expected to increase to 3.5 million this year,"" Doshi said. 

Vehicle exports from India have shot up by 82 percent in the past two years. In the first seven months of 1993/94 (April/March), India exported over 60,000 vehicles, up from 39,000 in the same period in 1992/93 and 33,000 in 1991/92. 

The AIAM has estimated that India is likely to export nearly 120,000 vehicles in 1993/94. 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
298	India	1993	61	Political	"NEW DELHI, Aug 16 (Reuter) - India on Monday cautioned the chief minister of its southern Tamil Nadu state against her implied threat to secede over a river water dispute, saying New Delhi would act firmly to stop such a move. 

Ruling Congress party members of the upper house of parliament demanded action over an angry statement from Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayaram Jayalalitha over a dispute on sharing river water with neighbouring Karnataka state. 
 
TD 
 In an Independence Day statement on Sunday, Jayalalitha demanded ""justice"" from New Delhi and water from the Cauvery river. 

""New Delhi's river water policy will endanger India's unity,"" she said in her latest blast in the long-running dispute with Karnataka, which she said the government had failed to resolve. 

""Nobody who really believes in safeguarding our hard-earned freedom would weaken our sense of national unity this way,"" she added. 

""This is a threat to secede and the government must respond forcefully,"" ruling Congress party deputy Jayanthi Natarajan told the upper house in an angry response on Monday. 

Home (Interior) Minister Shankarrao Chavan said he would try to solve the water dispute, but added : ""This does not allow (Jayalalitha) to make this kind of threat."" 

""We will investigate what she actually said and take all the necessary action accordingly,"" Chavan said. 

Jayalalitha last month suspended a threatened indefinite fast over the ancient water war after a government minister assured her a prompt resolution of the issue. 

Jayalalitha's All India Dravida Munnetra Kazhagama (AIDMK) party followed up her protest by voting against Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao in a no-confidence motion last month. 

Rao survived the motion narrowly, but his Congress party colleagues have been calling for Jayalalitha's dismissal since then, accusing her of corruption. 

The AIDMK's 11 members in parliament had traditionally voted for Rao. 

But the government's failure to help Tamil Nadu get more water from Karnataka, a state ruled by Rao's Congress party, has antagonised his former allies. 

Jayalalitha is a former movie heroine whom Tamils usually greet by throwing themselves flat at her feet. 

Karnataka complains its farmers have been robbed of Cauvery water since at least 1924 when India's British rulers drew up a plan meant to settle the dispute, then already decades old. 

Jayalalitha says the annual monsoon rains, lashing much of northern India and causing floods in several states, had eluded her drought-prone region, forcing her to press for more river water from Karnataka. 

 
"	4	4	4	3	0	1			4	3.5
218	India	2000	71	Political	"NEW DELHI, Aug 8 (Reuters) - India lashed out at Pakistan on Tuesday, blaming its arch-foe for derailing a peace initiative in the bitterly disputed Himalayan territory of Kashmir. 

""The sabotage of the peace process by Pakistan clearly shows its callous disregard for the welfare of the people of Jammu and Kashmir,"" the government said in a statement after a pro-Pakistan militant group, Hizbul Mujahideen, called off a unilateral ceasefire. 
 
TD 
 The government said Pakistani agencies had put intense pressure on the leadership of Hizbul Mujahideen to end the three-month truce, and had also put pressure on other militant groups to continue and intensify their acts of violence. 

It said this was what led to a spate of guerrilla attacks across India's only Moslem-majority state last week in which 95 people, mostly Hindu pilgrims and labourers, were killed in the space of a single night. 

India and Pakistan, both nuclear-capable states, have gone to war three times - twice over Kashmir - since 1947. India accuses its neighbour of sponsoring the decade-old bloody rebellion in Jammu and Kashmir, but Pakistan says it provides only moral and diplomatic support to the separatist movement. 
 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
459	India	1998	78	Corporate	"NEW DELHI, Dec 10 (Reuters) - BankAmerica Corp will sell its retail banking business in India but remains committed to its wholesale banking business in the country, a senior bank official said on Thursday. 

""The bank will continue its wholesale banking business in India,"" Josephine Heindel, Senior Vice-President and Marketing Manager for Asia Retail Banking told Reuters by telephone from Hong Kong. 
 
TD 
 Heindel said BankAmerica employed 360 people in its retail business in India. 

""We would certainly hope that in selling our retail banking business in India the purchaser might offer employment opportunities to many of our current employees,"" she said. 

Heindel said BankAmerica currently employed a total of 750 people in four branches in India. All branches handled both retail and wholesale business. 

""We expect keen interest (from potential purchasers) because this is a very good, very well-run business. It is making money,"" she said. 

""Throughout the sale process our emphasis is on taking care of our customers and taking care of our employees. We have a very good team of people in our retail bank in India. They have done a superb job of building this business over the past four years."" 

During the transition period, Heindel said, BankAmerica's retail banking in India would operate on a ""business-as-usual"" basis. ""The branches are open and our people are there to service our customers with the same high quality of service that they expect and deserve from us."" 

""We will handle the sale process as promptly and as smoothly as possible,"" Heindel said. 

She said the decision to sell the India retail banking business was a ""corporate strategy decision"". 

""It is not a reflection of the strength of our business in India. It is not a reflection of our commitment to the market or our assessment of the market."" 

She said BankAmerica had been in wholesale banking in India for over 30 years. ""We are very proud that we were judged the best foreign bank in wholesale banking (in India) last year,"" she said. 

 
"	4	1	4	1	0	0			4	1
431	India	2005	79	Corporate	"NEW DELHI, Nov 10 (Reuters) - India has cut the entry fee for national long-distance telecom services to 25 million rupees ($545,100) from one billion rupees to reduce costs and facilitate growth in the sector, Telecoms Minister Dayanidhi Maran said. 
 
TD 
 Maran said on Thursday the entry fee for international long-distance services had also been cut to 25 million rupees from 250 million rupees. 

He said the annual licence fee for both services had been reduced to six percent of annual gross revenue from 15 percent. 

The new regime comes into effect from Jan. 1, 2006. 

""Our idea is to encourage more players in the field. The tariff will definitely reduce,"" Maran told reporters. 

At the moment, India enjoys some of the cheapest local call rates but tariffs on overseas calls and domestic long-distance calls are high because of higher start-up costs for operators. 

Maran said he expected more players, some of them foreign, to enter the booming telecoms market. 

""I expect, by next year, the number of players will triple and I will not be surprised if it quadruples."" 

At the moment, India has three integrated carriers who offer national long-distance services. They are state-run Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd., Reliance Infocomm Ltd. and Bharti Tele-Ventures Ltd. . 

Maran said he expected international bandwidth prices to come down because of the Thursday's announcement, which will further boost India's booming backoffice industry. ($1 = 45.86 rupees) 
 
"	1	5	1	4	0	1			1	4.5
292	India	1992	82	Corporate	"NEW DELHI, May 18, Reuter - A suspended broker who was at the centre of a securities scam that recently rocked Indian stock markets, denied he had violated any law in his deals, the Press Trust of India (PTI) said. 

PTI quoted a letter by Harshad Mehta to an investigating agency probing his deals saying he did not violate the law. 
 
TD 
 ""All our transactions have been in accordance with prevailing practice - a practice which is by no means secret or clandestine,"" PTI quoted the letter addressed to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). 

Soon after the government ordered a CBI probe into Mehta's deals after the scandal broke in April, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the central bank, started an investigation into securities deals of 17 Indian and four foriegn banks. 

Mehta has been suspended from the Bombay stock exchange. 

He said the investigation would provide him an opportunity to exonorate himself. 

""Investigating officers will find full cooperation from me in unearthing the truth,"" PTI quoted Mehta as saying. 

Mehta said the adverse publicity would damage his image and impair the value of his assets. 
 
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
178	India	2007	84	Corporate	"NEW DELHI, Nov 19 (Reuters) - Britain will support India's bid for the 2020 Olympic Games, London mayor Ken Livingstone told a conference on Monday. 

Livingstone, Sebastian Coe, head of 2012 London Olympic Games body, and Chelsea football club's chief executive Peter Kenyon are part of a high-powered delegation in the country aimed at developing cultural, business and sporting links between London and India. 
 
TD 
 Indian Olympic association president Suresh Kalmadi announced in April his intention to start work on the bid for the 2020 Olympics after staging the 2010 Commonwealth Games. 

The effort to host world class sporting events would enhance the opportunity for Delhi and London to develop a relationship and strengthen social, cultural and economical bonding, Livingstone told the conference, according to a statement released by the organisers. 

Olympian Coe said the challenge for a city was to avail all possible amenities for the Games and leave a lasting legacy for years to come. 

Hosting a mega-sporting event was an opportunity for a city to feature in the world map and create role models, he added. (Writing by Sanjay Rajan in Mumbai; Editing by John O'Brien) 
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
406	India	1992	88	Corporate	"NEW DELHI, May 7, Reuter - India will not further reduce duty on gold imports or accelerate plans to make the rupee fully convertible, Finance Minister Manmohan Singh said. 

""Now (gold) duty is such that it will lower smugglers' margins, taking into account the risk involved in smuggling,"" Singh said in an interview. 
 
TD 
 Singh relaxed a ban on gold imports in his 1992/93 budget (April/March), allowing Indians who stay abroad for six months to bring back up to five kilos of gold. When it appeared Indians were not taking advantage of the offer because of the high duty, Singh slashed it to 220 rupees per 10 grams from 450 rupees. 

""Ultimately, we should move toward a system where only tariffs and exchange controls regulate the flow of exports and imports,"" Singh said. 

He has already begun dismantling exchange controls by making the rupee partly convertible on India's trade account. Exporters can sell 60 pct of the foreign exchange they earn on a new secondary money market. They have to sell the remaining 40 pct to the central bank. 

Some traders in Bombay have speculated that India may make the rupee fully convertibile within a year. 

Singh saw little chance of that. 

""I think the present system should be allowed to work itself out,"" he said. ""We just introduced partial convertibility in March, so I think two months is too short a period to say we're now able to take the next step. 

""But it is our dream to move towards full convetibility."" 
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
454	India	1993	89	Political	"NEW DELHI, Aug 3 (Reuter) - A leading Israeli orchestra has called off its tour to India after New Delhi asked the group to drop the word ""Jerusalem"" from its name, Israeli officials said on Tuesday. 

They said the Jerusalem Symphony Orchestra decided to cancel the visit, billed as Israel's first major cultural export to India, after the group's board of directors rejected New Delhi's request. 
 
TD 
 ""The board obviously decided that it would be insulting to accede to India's suggestion on Jerusalem,"" an Israeli official told Reuters on condition of anonymity. 

India, which established diplomatic ties with Israel last year, had asked the orchestra to change its name for peformances in Bombay and New Delhi scheduled for October because it could strain ties with its Arab friends. 

New Delhi accords the Palestine Liberation Organisation (PLO) the status of a government-in-exile and regards Jerusalem as a disputed city.
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
125	India	1999	92	Corporate	"NEW DELHI, Dec 11 (Reuters) - The Indian government is putting together a civil aviation policy with the focus on greater private participation in the sector, a Civil Aviation Ministry official said on Saturday. 

""We are putting together a policy on civil aviation. There is no policy document as such,"" Ravindra Gupta, civil aviation secretary told a conference on ""Tourism and Sustainable Development."" 
 
TD 
 He said one of the main planks of the new policy would be greater participation to private firms in the country's civil aviation sector. 

Currently, the federal government controls much of the sector, from airports to airlines. 

Only a handful of private firms fly domestic airlines. 

India is currently scouting for private sector involvement in airports and seeking partners for the state-run airlines to attract more funds and improve their services. 

Gupta said the government was also working on a package of incentives for operators of small aircraft to widen airline services to all parts of the coutnry. 

""Our endeavour is...how can we open more and more areas in the country to air services,"" Gupta said. 

He said the package will specifically aim to make operations of turbo prop aircraft viable in the country. 

 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
175	India	2007	94	Corporate	"NEW DELHI, Nov 13 (Reuters) - Indian Oil Minister Murli Deora said on Tuesday his officials were talking to the federal finance ministry for an early, ""workable"" way to ease losses at state oil firms hit by a surge in global crude oil prices. 

""As the international oil prices are close to $100 per barrel, (firms') under-recoveries can only go up and we are very concerned ... appropriate decision on price will be taken at an appropriate time,"" Deora said at a press conference. 
 
TD 
 State companies have to sell widely consumed fuels like petrol and diesel at discounted rates to protect the poor and fight inflation but say they are losing millions of dollars a day due to record high crude prices. 

India imports 70 percent of its crude needs. 

Elections next month in a key state make a hike in retail prices politically risky, analysts say. India is also considering changes to duties, and issues bonds to state refiners to partially compensate them for their losses. (Reporting by Nidhi Verma, Editing by Mark Williams)
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
448	India	1996	95	Political	"NEW DELHI, Aug 7 (Reuter) - India announced on Wednesday the dates of next month's local assembly elections in the troubled northern state of Jammu and Kashmir, the first assembly polls in the province in nine years. 

Election Commissioner M.S. Gill told a news conference in the Indian capital that polling in the rebellious Himalayan province will be held on September 7, 16, 21 and 30. 
 
TD 
 Last month, the commission said the polls would be held in September but did not set the dates. Authorities decided to stagger the dates to allow security forces and electoral officials to move from one area of the state to another. 

The last elections to the 87-seat state assembly were held in 1987. The federal government dissolved the state assembly in 1990 after the outbreak of a separatist rebellion. 

Police and hospital officials say more than 20,000 people have died in the revolt. 

There was sporadic violence in Jammu and Kashmir during elections to the federal parliament in May. Those were the first parliamentary polls in the state since 1989. 

The government denied claims by separatist leaders and human rights groups that security forces compelled many voters to cast ballots in May. 

Many more candidates were expected to contest the assembly polls, which involve more constituencies than the six in the parliamentary elections. 

Pakistan, which rules over one third of the Kashmir region and has staked a claim to the rest, has denounced India's plans to hold the assembly elections. India claims Pakistan arms and trains separatist guerrillas. Islamabad denies the charge.
 
"	1	1	1	2	0	1			1	1.5
66	India	2009	96	Corporate	"NEW DELHI, Nov 5 (Reuters) - State-run Punjab National Bank on Thursday said it was extending till end-December an offer of cheaper rates on some home and car loans.

India's No. 3 lender had earlier offered home loans below 3 million rupees at a fixed interest rate of 8.5 percent for the first three years and up to 2.5 percent below the benchmark prime lending rate for the remaining tenor.
 
TD 
 An earlier cut in car loan rates by 50 basis points would also run till the year end, PNB said in a statement.

Media have reported banks like PNB and larger peer State Bank of India plan to withdraw by the year end such special schemes as interest rates look set to harden. (Reporting by C.J. Kuncheria; Editing by Harish Nambiar)
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
180	India	1993	97	Political	"NEW DELHI, May 28, Reuter - India on Friday denied Pakistani press reports that it was reinforcing troops along the ceasefire line in Kashmir with its arch foe. 

""There is nothing unusual happening out there...Army representatives from both sides of the border are regularly in touch after the reports,"" a foreign ministry spokesman said. 
 
TD 
 He quoted Pakistani press reports as saying that India had deployed additional troops in Jammu and Kashmir state, where Moslem militants are fighting a three-year-old war against Indian rule. 

The spokesman said there was some limited movement of Indian troops in Kashmir, which was ""usual in summer"". 

""We are committed to the (April 6, 1991) agreement with Pakistan on advance notice of military excercises,' he said. 

The two countries have fought three wars since their independence from Britain in 1947, two of them over Kashmir. 

 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
296	Ireland	1991	6	Political	"DUBLIN, July 28, Reuter - Protestant extremists from Northern Ireland firebombed two department stores and two pubs in the Irish Republic on Saturday night and warned of more attacks. 

Police said noone was hurt in the blazes sparked by the explosions. 
 
TD 
 The Ulster Freedom Fighters, battling to keep Northern Ireland British, claimed responsibility. In a statement released in Belfast, the outlawed paramilitary group said it had planted up to 50 incendiary devices all around the Irish Republic. 

Police issued a nationwide alert, warning businessmen to check their premises thoroughly over the weekend. 

The first target was a Dublin department store, where incendiary devices went off after closing time. Cleaning staff put out the fires, which damaged some clothing. 

A supermarket in western Ireland and two pubs on the Dublin to Belfast road were also hit. 

County Louth pub owner Madeline Mullinger said three young men with Northern Irish accents had been drinking at the spot where the first incendiary device was found in her bar. 

""It was located at the back of the seating and exploded shortly before closing time. Luckily noone was injured. Customers helped us to put out the fire,"" she said. 

The incendiary devices consisted of alarm clocks attached to a cassette and small packs of explosives. Similar devices have been used by Protestant extremists for previous firebombings. 
 
"	2	2	2	3	0	1		1	2	2.5
381	Ireland	1996	23	Political	"DUBLIN, July 8 (Reuter) - The following are highlights of stories reported in the Irish press on Thursday. 

IRISH INDEPENDENT 
 
TD 
 - The Secretary of State for Northern Ireland Patrick Mayhew barred the protestant Apprentice Boys of Londonderry from parading along a nationalist route in the city next Saturday. 

- An increase in bank and mortgage interest rates still seems inevitable but the Irish central bank showed no signs of budging. 

- First National Building Society acquired The Mortgage Corporation (TMC) in Britain for 53 million sterling. 

- Irish financial services company Irish Life has issued dismissal notices to 15 staff as part of long-running restructuring of its sales force. 

IRISH TIMES 

- British-owned Thompson Holidays purchased Budget Travel for an undisclosed sum. 

- The Irish Futures and Options Exchange (IFOX) is to close down after seven years because it cannot generate enough revenue to justify its existence. 

- The National Treasury Management Agency issued another 50 million Irish pounds worth of Ulysses stock to domestic and overseas investors. 

- Irish industrial holding company DCC has increased its stake in International Translation and Publishing (ITP) to 90 percent from 44.5 percent. 

 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
152	Ireland	2005	24	Political	"DUBLIN, July 28 (Reuters) - The Irish Republican Army said on Thursday that it had formally ordered an end to its armed campaign against British rule in Northern Ireland from 4 p.m. (1500 GMT) on Thursday. 

A copy of the IRA's statement follows. 
 
TD 
 The leadership of Oglaigh na hEireann (the IRA) has formally ordered an end to the armed campaign. This will take effect from 4 p.m. this afternoon. All IRA units have been ordered to dump arms. All volunteers have been instructed to assist the development of purely political and democratic programmes through exclusively peaceful means. 

Volunteers must not engage in any other activities whatsoever. The IRA leadership has also authorised a representative to engage with the IICD to complete the process to verifiably put its arms beyond use in a way which will further enhance public confidence and to conclude this as quickly as possible. 

We have invited two independent witnesses, from the Protestant and catholic churches, to testify to this. The Army Council took these decisions following an unprecedented internal discussion and consultation process with IRA units and volunteers. 

We appreciate the honest and forthright way in which the consultation process was carried out and the depth and content of the submissions. We are proud of the comradely way in which this truly historic discussion was conducted. The outcome of our consultations show very strong support among IRA volunteers for the Sinn Fein peace strategy. 

There is also widespread concern about the failure of the two governments and the unionists to fully engage in the peace process. This has created real difficulties. The overwhelming majority of people in Ireland fully support this process. They and friends of Irish unity through the world want to see the full implementation of the Good Friday Agreement. 

Notwithstanding these difficulties, our decisions have been taken to advance our republican and democratic objectives, including our goal of a united Ireland. We believe there is now an alternative way to achieve this and to end British rule in our country. 

It is the responsibility of all volunteers to show leadership, determination and courage. We are very mindful of the sacrifices of our patriotic dead, those who went to jail, volunteers, their families and the wider republican base. We reiterate our view that the armed struggle was entirely legitimate. 

We are conscious that many people suffered in the conflict. There is a compelling imperative on all sides to build a just and lasting peace. The issue of the defence of nationalist and republican communities has been raised with us. There is a responsibility on society to ensure that there is no reoccurrence of the pogroms of 1969 and the early-1970s. 

There is also a universal responsibility to tackle sectarianism in all its forms. The IRA is fully committed to the goals of Irish unity and independence and to building the Republic outlined in the 1916 Proclamation. We call for maximum unity and effort by Irish republicans everywhere. We are confident that by working together Irish republicans can achieve our objectives. 

Every volunteer is aware of the import of the decisions we have taken and all Oglaigh (volunteers) are compelled to fully comply with these orders. There is now an unprecedented opportunity to utilise the considerable energy and goodwill which there is for the peace process. This comprehensive series of unparalleled initiatives is our contribution to this and to the continued endeavours to bring about independence and unity for the people of Ireland. 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
308	Ireland	1992	29	Political	"DUBLIN, June 19, Reuter - Irish voters gave the Maastricht Treaty on European union a resounding ""yes"" in a crucial referendum on the future of the European Community, Agriculture Minister Joe Walsh said on Friday. 

Watching the votes being counted in Cork, Ireland's second biggest city, he said ""They are polling about 3-1 in favour of a yes."" 
 
TD 
 ""I think the 'yes' vote will win by a comfortable majority,"" Walsh told Irish state radio as the first returns came in from around the country. 

Tallymen, officials from all the main parties who oversee counting equipped just with pencils, notebooks and a sharp eye, reported a comfortable majority for Maastricht in the rural counties of Kildare, Galway and Limerick. 

""It's yes, yes, yes right across the country to Maastricht,"" one ebullient dealer at Davy Stockbrokers in Dublin said just 30 minutes into the count. 

After Denmark's surprise rejection of the Maastricht accord two weeks ago, European markets had been jittery although a ""yes"" vote in Ireland was widely forecast by analysts and dealers. 

The Irish punt firmed slightly on the ""yes"" news which could now help put European union back on track. Government bonds also picked up, dealers said. 

Prime Minister Albert Reynolds had warned the Irish of dire economic consequences if they turned their backs on Europe -- job losses, a flight of foreign capital and higher inflation. 

Ranged against the four main political parties and the chief farming, trade union and business leaders was a ""rainbow coalition"" of environmentalists, supporters of Ireland's neutrality and pro- and anti-abortion campaigners. 

Early signs from the counts in country areas showed a resounding 75 per cent in favour of Maastricht while other constituencies outside the capital showed 2-1 in favour of the accord. 

But initial returns from one working-class area of Dublin where a heavy ""no"" vote was expected showed the vote was split around 50-50. 

Ireland, one of the poorest members of the 12-nation bloc, receives six punts for every punt it puts into EC coffers. 

In a 1972 referendum, the Irish enthusiastically embraced the decision to join the Community with 80 per cent in favour. 

Reynolds, criticised for running a lacklustre campaign and leaving many voters confused over the issues, had plenty to celebrate in his own Longford constituency -- the vote was 3-1 in favour of Maastricht, officials said. 

An obviously relieved and delighted Reynolds told Irish state radio: ""I think it is a very clear-cut decision."" 

""I am very pleased and delighted ... This will give Ireland a big boost in status."" 

 
0"	1	4	1	3	0	2			1	3.5
173	Ireland	1992	34	Political	"DUBLIN, June 19, Reuter - Irish voters gave the Maastricht Treaty on European union a resounding ""yes"" in a crucial referendum on the future of the European Community, Agriculture Minister Joe Walsh said on Friday. 

Watching the votes being counted in Cork, Ireland's second biggest city, he said ""They are polling about 3-1 in favour of a yes."" 
 
TD 
 ""I think the 'yes' vote will win by a comfortable majority,"" Walsh told Irish state radio as the first returns came in from around the country. 

Tallymen, officials from all the main parties who oversee counting equipped just with pencils, notebooks and a sharp eye, reported a comfortable majority for Maastricht in the rural counties of Kildare, Galway and Limerick. 

""It's yes, yes, yes right across the country to Maastricht,"" one ebullient dealer at Davy Stockbrokers in Dublin said just 30 minutes into the count. 

After Denmark's surprise rejection of the Maastricht accord two weeks ago, European markets had been jittery although a ""yes"" vote in Ireland was widely forecast by analysts and dealers. 

The Irish punt firmed slightly on the ""yes"" news which could now help put European union back on track. Government bonds also picked up, dealers said. 

Prime Minister Albert Reynolds had warned the Irish of dire economic consequences if they turned their backs on Europe -- job losses, a flight of foreign capital and higher inflation. 

Ranged against the four main political parties and the chief farming, trade union and business leaders was a ""rainbow coalition"" of environmentalists, supporters of Ireland's neutrality and pro- and anti-abortion campaigners. 

Early signs from the counts in country areas showed a resounding 75 per cent in favour of Maastricht while other constituencies outside the capital showed 2-1 in favour of the accord. 

But initial returns from one working-class area of Dublin where a heavy ""no"" vote was expected showed the vote was split around 50-50. 

Ireland, one of the poorest members of the 12-nation bloc, receives six punts for every punt it puts into EC coffers. 

In a 1972 referendum, the Irish enthusiastically embraced the decision to join the Community with 80 per cent in favour. 

Reynolds, criticised for running a lacklustre campaign and leaving many voters confused over the issues, had plenty to celebrate in his own Longford constituency -- the vote was 3-1 in favour of Maastricht, officials said. 

An obviously relieved and delighted Reynolds told Irish state radio: ""I think it is a very clear-cut decision."" 

""I am very pleased and delighted ... This will give Ireland a big boost in status."" 

 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
309	Ireland	1998	38	Political	"DUBLIN, July 12 (Reuters) - Belgian sprinter Tom Steels snatched victory in the first stage of the Tour de France on Sunday, a year after his Tour debut ended in disgrace. 

Steels fought off second-placed German Erik Zabel and Australian Robbie McEwen, third, in a mass sprint finish to the 180.5-km leg in Phoenix Park. 
 
TD 
 Steels' victory wiped away his bitter memory of last year's Tour when, frustrated at other riders' tactics in a mass finish in Marennes, he hurled his plastic drinking bottle at Frenchman Frederic Moncassin. He was subsequently thrown out of the race. 

""I learnt a lot from what happened last year,"" said Steels. 

""I got a bit carried away, that's why I blew a fuse. Tour sprints are always difficult because the best sprinters are here, and others try their luck making it dangerous."" 

On Sunday, his defeat of Zabel, and Mario Cipollini's crash eight kilometres from the finish, helped Britain's Chris Boardman keep the Tour lead by four seconds from Spain's Abraham Olano. 

The big Italian was absent from the sprint he was expected to dominate following a five-man spill. 

""Someone next to me fell, and there was nothing I could do,"" said Cipollini, who was within 13 seconds of Boardman overnight. 

""I was working for my first yellow jersey, but a rider's feet slipped from his pedals, and that put me off balance just as the sprint began,"" said the Berlin teammate of Tour favourite Jan Ullrich. 

(C) Reuters Limited 1998. 
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
197	Ireland	1992	54	Political	"DUBLIN, June 17, Reuter - The IRA on Wednesday said it planted a bomb in a hijacked London taxi and the cab driver said Queen Elizabeth's official residence could have been the target. 

The bomb went off near Piccadilly Circus in central London early on Tuesday morning, causing damage to buildings but no injuries. 
 
TD 
 The Irish Republican Army, fighting to oust Britain from Northern Ireland, said its guerrillas were responsible. 

""Volunteers of the IRA have for the third time in a week thwarted highly increased security in central London to detonate a bomb in the heart of the British capital,"" it said in a statement released to the media. 

The London cab driver, who gave his name as Jimmy the Greek, said the two IRA men ordered him to open the taxi's sunroof as they approached Buckingham Palace, the Queen's residence. ""I thought they were going to lob a bomb into the palace,"" he said. 

But the two became agitated when they saw guards outside the palace and, after pointing guns at the soldiers, told the driver to go to the spot where the bomb was detonated. 

The two abandoned the car and the driver ran off. 

The guerrilla group said: ""The unrelenting efforts of our volunteers continue to serve notice on the British government that there is a clear price to be paid as long as it continues to occupy part of Ireland's national territory."" 

It was the first time on the mainland that the IRA had delivered a bomb in a hijacked vehicle, one of its favourite tactics in Northern Ireland. 

The IRA, constantly switching tactics to confuse security forces, has used bombs, incendiary devices and mortar bombs to blow up telephone boxes, clubs, shops, military buildings and railway stations across the mainland. 

 
"	4	4	4	4	0	0			4	4
443	Ireland	2009	58	Political	"BELFAST, June 23 (Reuters) - About 100 Romanians who fled their homes following days of racist attacks in Belfast last week have decided to leave Northern Ireland, the minister who arranged their temporary housing said on Tuesday.

Social Development Minister Margaret Ritchie said 25 people -- some of whom had their windows smashed, doors broken down and were threatened at gunpoint -- had already left. A further 75 were set to follow them home to Romania. ""I am very sad that they have decided to go home. I always said it was a matter of personal choice and that breathing space of temporary accommodation allowed them to reflect on their circumstances,"" Ritchie told Reuters.
 
TD 
 She said 14 Romanians had decided to stay in the country.

The church hall which provided overnight shelter for the Romanian families last week has since had windows smashed and a door broken, police said on Tuesday.

Police have charged three men -- two of them in their teens -- over the intimidation of the Romanians. Two more teenagers were arrested on Tuesday for provocative conduct and intimidation.

""We are not a racist society but we have to work to build respect for political, religious and ethnic difference,"" Ritchie said.

Politicians in Northern Ireland, which was scarred by decades of violence between Protestants and Catholics until the 1998 Good Friday peace agreement, have expressed alarm at rising crime against immigrants from Eastern Europe.

(Writing by Padraic Halpin, editing by Mark Trevelyan)
 
"	4	1	4	2	0	1			4	1.5
82	Ireland	1997	60	Corporate	"DUBLIN, June 26 (Reuter) - Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group Plc said on Thursday that its 12 million sterling acquisition of Fortis' Irish subsidiary AMEV General Insurance Co Ltd should raise its market share in the Irish non-life market to 15 percent from 12 percent. 

""It's a profitable market for us and therefore we want to grow there,"" Karen Donhue, manager of group corporate affairs, told Reuters. 
 
TD 
 Royal & Sun Alliance said the acquisition would enable it to build upon its position in Ireland and it expected earnings to be enhanced in 1998. 

Donhue said Royal & Sun Alliance would be interested in expanding further in Ireland in terms of growing the books of business. 

""At the moment, I wouldn't say that we are necessarily looking at any other acquisitions although we couldn't rule that out if something that was as good as Fortis' book of business became available again,"" Donhue said. 

""But we have three organisations to bring together and that's enough to be going on with at the moment,"" she added. 

Royal & Sun Alliance resulted from the merger of Sun Alliance and Royal Insurance in July 1996. It wrote net premiums of 139 million in Ireland last year. 

AMEV General Insurance is a non-life insurer which is active in household, motor and travel insurance. The unit distributes its products mainly through brokers and posted 1996 premium income of about 26 million punts. 

Donhue said the integration of AMEV with its existing business should result in economies of scale and Royal & Sun would be looking to reduce expenditure on the business it writes. 

She also said that at present Royal & Sun plans to take on all staff that transfer across to the new, enlarged company. 

 
"	4	1	4	1	0	0			4	1
38	Ireland	2008	70	Corporate	"DUBLIN, April 10 (Reuters) - Aer Lingus shareholders on Thursday approved the purchase of 12 Airbus aircraft ordered last June, although Ryanair, which has a 29 percent stake in its fellow Irish carrier, voted against.
 
TD 
 Aer Lingus, which entered partnerships with U.S. carrier United Airlines this week and with JetBlue in February, hopes the new long-haul aircraft would support its expansion plans, especially on transatlantic routes. ""The board believes that the Aer Lingus purchase agreement underpins Aer Lingus' growth strategy,"" Chairman John Sharman told shareholders at an extraordinary general meeting.

Last month the former state airline said it could not give a profit outlook for this year because of uncertainties about the economic outlook and oil prices.

Chief Executive Dermot Mannion said on Thursday that the uncertainty remained. But he added: ""We're cautiously optimistic about managing to grow traffic going forward even in a tough market.""

MARKET DOWNTURN

Ryanair, which has a stake in Aer Lingus following a failed takeover bid, voted against buying the new aircraft, saying that they could have been bought more cheaply.

""This order was negotiated some 12 months ago (May'07), at or very close to the top of the last aircraft value cycle,"" Ryanair said in a letter to Aer Lingus explaining its vote and seen by Reuters.

""We would strongly urge your Board and Management to cancel and/or renegotiate this order to take advantage of the recent market downturn and the significant reduction in aircraft prices, to secure these same aircraft at significantly lower prices.""

The European Commission last year blocked Ryanair's bid for Aer Lingus on competition grounds but subsequently also rejected a request from Aer Lingus that it force Europe's biggest-low cost carrier to reduce its stake.

A European court last month also rejected an attempt by Aer Lingus to issue an interim order blocking what it calls interference by Ryanair.

Aer Lingus, which serves seven U.S. destinations directly, in February started a partnership with JetBlue, allowing Irish and U.S. customers to book a single reservation between Ireland and more than 40 continental U.S. airports. It also signed a codeshare deal with United Airlines, a unit of UAL Corp on Tuesday.

 
"	1	3	1	4	0	1			1	3.5
450	Ireland	1999	70	Political	" 
 BELFAST, July 13 (Reuters) - Northern Ireland's republican Sinn Fein party sharply criticised British Prime Minister Tony Blair on Tuesday for introducing a bill which it said could lead to its exclusion from a planned home rule executive. The political wing of the Irish Republican Army (IRA) said Blair was ""pandering"" to David Trimble, leader of the province's pro-British unionists, by adding last-minute legislation aimed at clarifying last year's Good Friday peace accord. 

But Sinn Fein stopped short of threatening to pull out of the faltering peace process altogether. 
 
TD 
 ""The legislation proposed by Tony Blair is not only outside the Good Friday agreement but stands the Good Friday agreement on its head in a number of very important respects,"" Alex Maskey, a senior Sinn Fein official, told reporters. 

""The proposed legislation is not necessary... and is merely pandering to David Trimble and those other unionists who are bent on blocking implementation of the Good Friday agreement,"" he said. 

The changes spell out more clearly that Sinn Fein would be excluded from the executive should the IRA fail to hand over weapons according to a set timetable. But Maskey said it would open the door for pro-British unionists to persist in efforts to expel Sinn Fein from the power-sharing government Blair wants up and running by Sunday in the British province. 

""It certaintly does facilitate - in fact, encourage - expulsion, presumably of our party, because our party is the only one they're talking about,"" he said. 

Maskey said the legislation fell outside the Good Friday accord in two areas: providing a mechanism for exclusion and extending the mandate of the Decommissioning Commission headed by Canadian General John de Chastelain. He added he thought it would be difficult for the moderate nationalist Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP) to agree to any moves to exclude Sinn Fein from the executive. ""I would think it would be very difficult for any other nationalist party to consider joining with negative unionism to expel another nationalist party,"" Maskey said. 

""That would be a serious setback to the...peace process itself, the success of which has been inclusivity, and more importantly, it would shift the balance of power on the executive toward a unionist majority,"" he added. 

 
"	1	5	1	4	0	2			1	4.5
97	Ireland	1991	77	Political	"BELFAST, May 7, Reuter - Delicate talks which offer Ireland its best chance of lasting peace for 70 years were deadlocked on Tuesday by a row over where future negotiations should be held. 

A meeting between Northern Ireland Roman Catholic and Protestant political leaders was planned for Tuesday as part of new negotiations on sharing power in the province. 
 
TD 
 An accord ending direct British rule might help end political and sectarian bloodshed there. 

But Tuesday's talks did not take place because the two sides could not agree on a venue for a further round, to be held in June, which will be joined by the goverment of the Irish Republic. 

Britain's Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, Peter Brooke, who has called the talks, tried to break the deadlock. 

""Bilateral talks are continuing,"" said a spokesman at the minister's office. Officials said privately they hoped a solution would be found this week. 

Brooke is bringing together the mainly Catholic Social Democratic and Labour Party, the middle-of-the-road Alliance Party and the Ulster and Democratic Unionist parties. 

The SDLP is supported among Catholics, many of whom want a united Ireland. It says the talks with the Irish government should be held on Irish soil, ideally in Dublin. 

The Unionists, who want Northern Ireland to remain part of the United Kingdom, say they should be held in London. 

Ken Maginnes, a Unionist member of parliament, said: ""It would appear to many people that we were giving some sort of de facto recognition to the territorial claim if we went to Dublin."" 

Unionists demand that the Irish Government scrap articles in its constitution claiming the six counties of Northern Ireland. 

Some political commentators have suggested that the talks might have to move to a city on the European mainland. Strasbourg, headquarters of the European Parliament, has been mentioned. 

Sinn Fein, the political wing of the Irish Republican Army fighting to oust Britain from Northern Ireland, has not been invited to the talks because it refuses to renounce violence. REUTER PRM NM PFS JKF
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
164	Ireland	2005	83	Corporate	"DUBLIN, March 11 (Reuters) - Shares in Waterford Wedgwood slid as much as 36 percent on Friday after the Irish maker of fine crystal and china said Finance Director Paul D'Alton had resigned after less than a year in the role. ""Patrick Dowling, currently the company secretary at Waterford Wedgwood, takes over as acting chief financial officer with immediate effect,"" the company said in a statement on Friday. 

D'Alton, a former chief financial officer at both Bank of Ireland and state airline Aer Lingus, only joined the company in May last year following the departure of Richard Barnes who had been finance boss for more than 10 years. 
 
TD 
 ""Paul played an important and constructive role at Waterford Wedgwood but has now been offered an exciting new opportunity,"" O'Donoghue said of his move to become finance boss at AgCert International Ltd. ""We wish him every success."" 

The company's shares, which tumbled over 30 percent last October when it unveiled plans to issue new stock to fund the 40 million pound ($77 million) buy of Britain's Royal Doulton, were down 36 percent at 0.03 euros in Dublin by 0838 GMT. 

They were 27 percent weaker at 0.034 euros in London. 

Dowling, who has been company secretary at Waterford Wedgwood since 1999, is a former finance director of Fitzwilton Plc and has also worked for Bank of Chicago and Citibank. 

""Patrick Dowling brings considerable banking and public company experience and is a most able replacement,"" Waterford Wedgwood Chief Executive, Redmond O'Donoghue said. 
 
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
143	Ireland	1998	96	Corporate	"DUBLIN, May 21 (Reuters) - Ireland's state-owned telecommunications group Telecom Eireann said on Thursday it had secured two major projects with computer software giant Microsoft Corp . 

Telecom, who did not disclose the value of the projects, said they involve the installation of national and international broadband infrastructure. 
 
TD 
 Telecom said in a statement that the broadband network provided by Telecom Eireann will be located at Microsoft's European Operations centre in Sandyford, Dublin and will be operational from June 1998. 

""We are very proud of our success in securing this contract in a competitive telecommunications market,"" Telecom chief executive Alfie Kane said. 

He said the announcement was proof that Telecom Eireann could provide leading edge technological solutions which meet the requirements of the most sophisticated global clients. 

Microsoft's European Operations Centre managing director Kevin Dillon said the Sandyford-based site was the commercial and transaction centre for all Microsoft business in Europe,Africa and the Middle East. 

""As rapidly as our business grows, our transactions increase apace and become more reliant on electronic commerce,"" Dillon said. ""We therefore need the highest calibre broadband network connectivity to our customers."" 

He said Telecom Eireann continued to meet the growing needs of Microsoft's existing businesses and looked forward to working with them in evaluating Microsoft's future needs. 

""The Microsoft site in Ireland is one of our most important sites in Europe,"" Arne Josefsberg, general manager, Global Networking at Microsoft said. ""We are very pleased with Telecom Eireann's ability to provide a state of the art ATM network that will be a vital element in Microsoft's new Global Network."" 

 
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
54	Ireland	1995	100	Corporate	"DUBLIN, June 15 (Reuter) - Computer company Reflex Group Plc said it has slimmed down to a small head office in Dublin and three operations based in the UK which it believes will trade satisfactorily. 

""First Rental Ltd and Short Term Rental Systems Ltd provide fully commissioned data processing facilities for short periods to industrial and service sector users throughout the UK,"" the company said in a results statement. 
 
TD 
 Reflex CPMS, based in Maidenhead, provides application software solutions for the logistics and distribution market. 

Earlier, the group announced a pre-tax loss of 5.77 million Irish pounds in 1994 against a profit of 0.62 million in 1993. 

The group issued a profit warning in January, saying its 1994 loss before tax would be higher than expected because of losses in the Irish software operations and rationalisation costs. 

""The year ended 31 December 1994 has been a very difficult period for the group,"" chairman Tony Kilduff said. 

""The campaign to develop the Irish software business has proved extremely expensive and ultimately unsuccessful,"" he said. 

As a result, Reflex decided to withdraw from the Irish software business and the maintenance and hardware sales business carried on from Reflex House to focus on its continuing businesses in the UK. 

""This approach would allow the group to withdraw from loss-making and marginally profitable businesses accompanied by high overheads and to slim down to a small head office in Dublin,"" Kilduff said. 
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
39	Israel	2002	9	Corporate	"TEL AVIV, Dec 24 (Reuters) - Elisra Electronic Systems said on Tuesday it won a follow-on order worth $100 million for electronic warfare systems for the Israeli Air Force's new F-16I fighters. 

In June 2000 Elisra signed a deal with Israel's Ministry of Defence for a $200 million order that included an option for an additional $100 million worth of systems. The ministry is now exercising this option, Elisra said. 
 
TD 
 The Lockheed Martin (LMT.N) F-16s will be equipped with the Elisra systems starting in late 2003. 

Elisra is a subsidiary of Israeli holding company Koor Industries (KOR.TA). Last month Koor sold a 30 percent stake in Elisra to Elta Electronic Industries, a subsidiary of state-owned Israel Aircraft Industries. 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
46	Israel	2002	13	Corporate	"JERUSALEM, Dec 23 (Reuters) - BG Group (BG.L), the parent of British Gas Israel, said on Monday it has decided to begin drilling for natural gas off Israel's Mediterranean Coast but was waiting for decisions from its partners. 

""The joint venture is considering the proposal and is currently awaiting its decision,"" said BG spokesman Robin O'Kelly. ""It's up to the partners."" 
 
TD 
 He said BG intends to drill natural gas well Gal B near Haifa, Israel's third largest city but largest port. 

The Globes financial daily on its web site reported BG would invest $40 million in the drilling project but O'Kelly would not confirm the figure. 

Globes said drilling had been delayed due to uncertainty about tax rates on gas producers. 

Partners with BG are Israel's Granite Hacarmel Investments, Clal Industries and Investments (CII.TA), Alon Israel Fuel, Dor Energy and Dor Chemicals (DORC.TA). 

BG is also involved in other natural gas projects in Israel that have yielded commercial quantities of natural gas. 
 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
449	Israel	2001	17	Corporate	"TEL AVIV, Dec 27 (Reuters) - The chairman and chief executive officer of Bank Leumi, Israel's second-largest bank, said on Thursday they would give up five percent of their salaries in 2002.

The money will be put into a new fund being set up by the bank to support educational projects in poor neighbourhoods.

TD 

In 2000, Chairman Eitan Raff earned 1.77 million shekels ($406,400) while President and CEO Galia Maor earned 2.67 million shekels. Their 2001 salaries have not yet been made public.

Maor and Raff join a growing list of top executives at leading Israeli companies who are taking salary cuts as the country's recession deepens, leading to higher unemployment and a sharp decline in corporate profits.

On Wednesday the chairman of the First International Bank of Israel (FIBI) , Shlomo Piotrkowsky, said he would give up his entire salary of 1.7 million shekels for next year.

FIBI CEO David Granot will take a five percent cut in salary while members of the bank's board will see a 10 percent reduction.

State-controlled Bezeq Israel Telecom said on Wednesday its 100 most senior managers would have their salaries cut by three percent, saving the phone company over one million shekels per year."	1	4	1	5	0	1			1	4.5
220	Israel	2001	22	Corporate	"JERUSALEM, Dec 26 (Reuters) - Israeli biotechnology firm Compugen said on Wednesday it will begin trading on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange in addition to trading on Nasdaq starting on January 7. 

Compugen in a statement said the dual-listing will enable Israeli and international investors, who currently do not trade shares in the United States because of various restrictions, to trade in Compugen stock. 
 
TD 
 The firm, which combines computational technologies with biology and medicine to enhance drug discovery and development, said adavntages of dual-listing include a longer trading day. 

Compugen becomes the 17th Israeli company traded in the United States to dual-list in Tel Aviv following the easing of restrictions in late 2000, although Polycom Inc will delist its shares on January 23. 

It will also be the first biotech firm, with most of the others high-tech companies, to dual-list. Compugen will join tech companies such as Partner Communications , Alvarion , Tower Semiconductors and Audiocodes , who dual-listed in Tel Aviv the past year. 

Chani Shitrit, head of the bourse's listing department, said three other companies traded in New York are expected to dual-list in the next month. 

 
"	2	1	2	1	0	0			2	1
169	Israel	1991	25	Political	"JERUSALEM, Dec 28, Reuter - About 150 Jewish settlers chanting nationalist slogans and waving Israeli flags tried to march on an Arab village in the occupied West Bank on Saturday. 

Soldiers stopped the settlers entering the village of Dahiet al-Barid. Police said they did not know about the demonstration, although settlers had invited journalists to accompany them to the village where they said weapons were stored. 
 
TD 
 The settlers, many carrying guns, blocked the main road to the village, just outside Jerusalem, with burning tyres and barrels. 

They protested against ""soft government handling"" of Arab attacks before driving to Jerusalem and staging a demonstration outside the house of Justice Minister Dan Meridor. 

Groups of settlers, accusing the government of failing to protect them, have smashed car and house windows, uprooted trees and opened fire in Palestinian areas to avenge attacks on Jews. 

Peace activists accuse the government of turning a blind eye to settlers who are taking the law into their hands. 

""We had no idea they were going to demonstrate tonight. As soon as we realised it, we rushed to the scene. The police do not allow such events,"" said a police spokeswoman. 

Since October, three Jews have been killed by Arab gunmen in the West Bank, captured by Israel in the 1967 Middle East war. 

Gunmen fired at an Israeli army patrol in the West Bank town of Kabatiya on Saturday but no one was hurt. The army said it found shells when it searched the area. 
 
"	2	1	2	1	0	0			2	1
405	Israel	1992	25	Corporate	"JERUSALEM, Nov 27, Reuter - The Israeli education ministry is negotiating a $140 million deal with a French computer firm, a spokesman for the ministry said on Friday.

Spokesman Ran Melamed said the ministry hoped to finalise the deal with the French state-owned Cie des Machines Bull within a month.

TD 

""We hope to sign the contract in 30 days,"" said Melamed.

The ministry would like to buy 70,000 computers for school children, with an additional 15,000 to be provided by Bull as a bonus. The contract would be worth about $140 million, Melamed said.

Bull would buy some $100 million worth of electronic parts for computers made in Israel, in an off-set agreement, he said.

Bull chairman Bernard Pache accompanied President Francois Mitterand on a 48-hour visit to Israel that ended Friday.

(c) Reuters Limited"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
251	Israel	2006	26	Political	"JERUSALEM, Nov 20 (Reuters) - Israel's top general voiced disappointment on Monday over the military's use of cluster bombs during the recent war in Lebanon and said he would investigate how such orders were given.

Lieutenant-General Dan Halutz, chief of staff of Israel's armed forces, made the comments after Israeli media reported he had banned the wide use of the munitions during last summer's fighting with Lebanon's Hezbollah guerrillas.

TD 

""The use of cluster bombs, I wouldn't say it is surprising, it is more disappointing,"" Halutz said on Army Radio during a visit to a military base near Tel Aviv.

""One of the things we wanted to check (is) how the order is given and carried out,"" Halutz said. ""We must check whether the instructions were clear, I believe they were.""

He declined to elaborate on the nature of the instructions.

The U.S.-based Human Rights Watch accused Israel of using cluster bombs in populated areas during the war, in which 1,200 Lebanese and 157 Israelis were killed.

The delayed explosions of cluster bombs, which work by bursting into bomblets that spread out on the ground, have killed more than 20 Lebanese and wounded 70 since the fighting ended with a United Nations-brokered truce in mid-August.

Israeli television said on Sunday a military probe had shown artillery gunners had contravened Halutz's orders in firing cluster bombs in southern Lebanon during the war sparked by the July 12 capture of two soldiers in a cross-border raid.

A report by London-based Landmine Action said hundreds of thousands of unexploded cluster bomblets still litter the Lebanese countryside.

Israel has in the past defended its right to use cluster bombs and says it only deploys them in accordance with international law. The United Nations has called for a freeze on the use of the weapons in or near populated areas.

Hezbollah, which rained 4,000 rockets on northern Israel during the war, has also been accused by human rights groups of using cluster munitions. It has denied the charge."	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
240	Israel	1990	29	Corporate	"JERUSALEM, Nov 20, Reuter - Palestinians in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip and Israeli-annexed Arab East Jerusalem stayed at home on Tuesday in protest against what underground leaders of a 35-month-old uprising called Israeli ""massacres."" 

Arab businesses stayed shut and public transport came to a halt as the 1.75 million Palestinians in the occupied lands observed the third strike called this month by Palestine Liberation Organisation-backed leaders of the revolt. 
 
TD 
 Israelis have killed at least 788 Arabs in the revolt. Police shot dead 18 Arabs in a riot at Jerusalem's Temple Mount last month. 

Palestinians have killed some 271 fellow Arabs, most of them suspected collaborators, and 54 Jews have died in the violence. 

In Gaza City, a 47-year-old Palestinian woman died from a heart attack on Tuesday while trying to stop Israeli security forces arresting her three sons and two friends, family members said. 

The Israelis eventually agreed not to arrest the five Palestinians but ordered them to appear at the military headquarters next week, the family said. 

An army spokesman said he was checking the report. 
 
"	2	2	2	3	0	-1			2	2.5
380	Israel	2004	36	Corporate	"TEL AVIV, Nov 29 (Reuters) - Israeli Communications Minister Ehud Olmert has informed Bezeq Israel Telecom (BEZQ.TA) that it must limit new investment in digital satellite television operator YES to 320 million shekels, Bezeq said on Monday.

In a statement to the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange Bezeq noted that it had sought to invest 440 million shekels in the cash-strapped YES, in which Bezeq is the largest shareholder, with a nearly 50 percent stake.

TD 

The ministry determined that such a large cash infusion in YES would hurt competition in the communications market. YES competes against Israel's three cable television operators, which are in the process of merging and which last week launched a fixed-line phone service to compete with Bezeq.

Bezeq, Israel's dominant phone company, said that since 195 million shekels have already been injected into YES this year, in effect only 125 million shekels in new funds can be invested in the company until the end of 2005.

The additional 125 million shekels would be divided as follows: 59 million shekels from Bezeq, 16 million shekels from other shareholders and 50 million shekels from banks.

Bezeq said its legal advisers believe the Communications Ministry does not have the authority to limit its investment in YES and after studying Olmert's decision Bezeq plans to present its position to the ministry in the coming days.

Bezeq, which is currently being privatised, has invested more than 1 billion shekels in YES over the past few years. The company holds options to increase its stake in YES to above 50 percent."	1	3	1	2	0	2			1	2.5
407	Israel	2008	41	Political	"JERUSALEM, Oct 22 (Reuters) - Israeli defence contractor Elbit Systems Ltd said on Wednesday it has won contracts valued at about $100 million to supply military communications systems to armies in South America, Asia and Europe.

It did not name the countries but said its deal with a South American army was worth $50 million. The contract for the Asian and European armies were worth $38 million and $10 million, respectively, Elbit said in a statement.

TD 

The communications systems to be delivered under the contracts are Tadiran CNR 9000, Tadiran HF 6000 and the PRC 710 radio systems. These tactical radio systems offer voice and high data rate transfer.

All products will be delivered through the end of 2009. (Reporting by Steven Scheer; Editing by Hans Peters)"	1	1	1	2	0	1			1	1.5
198	Israel	2001	53	Corporate	"JERUSALEM, Dec 6 (Reuters) - Israel's VSP Capital Holdings said on Thursday its U.S. subsidiary signed an agreement to buy U.N. Plaza, a complex of three office buildings across from the United Nations headquarters in New York, for $161 million. 

VSP Capital said in a statement to the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange that the deal for the buildings on the East Side of Manhattan is dependent on approval from the New York City municipality and is expected to close in the first quarter of 2002. 
 
TD 
 Capital's chief executive Shimon Weintraub told Reuters he hopes to make money on the deal because while prices to buy buildings in New York are high, rents have fallen. 

""It's a long-term investment; we would like to hold it,"" Weintraub said. 

He said VSP's U.S. unit, Capital Real Estate, owns five other properties in Manhattan, inluding the News Building in midtown and Hanover Square downtown. 

U.N. Plaza, Weintraub said, has a high occupancy rate of largely not-for-profit organisations and U.N. offices, most of which have long-term leases at low prices. 

The buildings and accompanying parking lot total 1.15 million square feet. 

VSP Capital's shares were up 4.3 percent at 9.46 shekels in afternoon trading, compared with gains of 1.4 percent in the broader Tel Aviv market. 

 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
350	Israel	2006	58	Political	"JERUSALEM, Oct 25 (Reuters) - Israel on Wednesday denied a German newspaper report that two Israeli air force planes flew over a German navy vessel patrolling Lebanon's coast, fired twice and activated anti-missile countermeasures.

""There was no such incident,"" an Israeli military spokeswoman said.

TD 

Der Tagesspiegel daily quoted a German junior defence minister as telling a parliamentary panel about the incident, without saying when or why it had happened. Germany's Defence Ministry confirmed the incident took place but did not give details."	2	1	2	1	0	0			2	1
170	Israel	1990	85	Corporate	"JERUSALEM, Jan 13, Reuter - West Germany is to donate 4.5 million dollars towards a sewage project in the Bethlehem area, its biggest donation to Palestinians living in Israeli-occupied territories, Bonn's ambassador to Jordan said on Saturday. 

The Palestinian mayors of Bethlehem, Beit Sahour and Beit Jalla signed an agreement on Saturday that finalised the deal. 
 
TD 
 West German Ambassador to Jordan Herwig Bartels arrived in Bethlehem from Amman to oversee the conclusion of the accord, already signed by the West German company GTZ on behalf of Bonn. Italy will donate a similar sum in equipment for the project. 

""By all standards, it is the largest project we have financed until now in the occupied territories,"" Bartels told Reuters. ""There was a vital need for the implementation of this project."" 

He said Israel, whose army rules over the 1.7 million Palestinians in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip, supported the project due to begin later this year. 

""They know of this project and they have been positive about it,"" he said. 

Bethlehem Mayor Elias Freij said the three-year project would also supply funds for new sewage in the Dheishesh, Aida and Azza refugee camps near Bethlehem. 
 
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
463	Israel	2003	88	Political	"JERUSALEM, Oct 1 (Reuters) - Israeli soldiers combating rioters in a Palestinian uprising have on occasion resorted to live ammunition because of a serious shortage of ""non-lethal"" arms such as tear gas, according to an official report.

Israel's State Comptroller blamed the shortage of such weapons, also including rubber bullets and stun grenades, on lack of money and poor management. Army operations in the West Bank and Gaza Strip were suffering as a consequence.

TD 

Palestinians have accused the Israeli army of using excessive force in confrontations with stonethrowers since the uprising began in September 2000. The army has maintained that it does its utmost to avoid civilian casualties.

At least 2,163 Palestinians and 807 Israelis have been killed in three years of bloodshed.

The army said that since the report was written it had procured enough tear gas, stun grenades and rubber bullets for use against Palestinian stonethrowers who, along with gunmen, have played a part in the uprising.

The comptroller, in an annual report, said the military had failed to allot funds and manpower to develop and purchase better non-lethal ammunition, even after deciding the current arsenal was not effective.

An army spokesman said that ""the military allots considerable resources to develop non-lethal weapons"".

The comptroller said the lack of such weapons forced officers to postpone arrests and raids and to draft extra troops into operations as additional deterrent.

Officers interviewed for the report said at times they ordered troops without the appropriate non-lethal weapons to retreat before completing a mission to avoid confrontation with angry mobs, or otherwise delayed operations until after dark.

""There were instances where, due to lack of non-lethal arms in the division, live ammunition was used as an alternative,"" the report said.

The comptroller urged the army to take appropriate steps to rectify the situation."	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
352	Israel	1994	99	Political	"JERUSALEM, Dec 9 (Reuter) - The leaders of Israel and the PLO return to Oslo, the city where their peace deal was crafted, on Friday to share the 1994 Nobel Peace Prize and strive to find a way to keep their beleaguered 15-month-old accord on course.

Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres told reporters after a short meeting with PLO leader Yasser Arafat on Thursday that the two of them and Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin would meet in Oslo in hopes of ironing out difficulties.

TD 

Bloodshed caused by opponents of the deal which provides Palestinian self-rule in stages has dogged the accord, hammered out in Oslo and signed in Washington on September 13, 1993.

The two worst incidents: on February 25 a Jewish settler shot dead 30 Palestinians at prayer in the West Bank town of Hebron. On October 19 a suicide bomber of the Islamic Resistance Movement Hamas killed 22 people -- 20 of them Israelis -- when he blew up a Tel Aviv bus at morning rush hour.

On October 14, the day it was announced that Arafat, Rabin and Peres were this year's laureates, Hamas militants killed an Israeli soldier whom they had held for a week.

After a failed Israeli rescue raid, in which one of the Israeli commandos and three kidnappers were also killed, Rabin said: ""I wish I could give up the Nobel prize to get the two soldiers back.""

Some Israeli officials have reservations at expanding self-rule beyond Gaza and Jericho in light of the violence.

Some Israeli ministers this week said Israeli troops should not redeploy away from Palestinian population centres in still- occupied parts of the West Bank prior to Palestinian elections as the accords dictated.

Palestinian officials warned if Israel tried unilaterally to change the Oslo accords the deal would be destroyed.

On Thursday, Peres and Arafat said after their meeting they understood one another. Israel's cabinet, ending a debate of three days, reaffirmed its commitment to the Oslo accords.

The accords provide Palestinian self-rule in the Gaza Strip and West Bank, occupied by Israel since it captured them from, respectively, Egypt and Jordan in the 1967 Middle East war.

Gaza and Jericho were to get autonomy first. They did in May. On July 1, Arafat, long loathed in Israel, returned in triumph to his homeland after 27 years of embattled exile.

Peres and Rabin emphasised Israeli soldiers would no longer fight an unwinnable battle against militants and unarmed women and children in Gaza's alleys.

Each stage of the deal, which calls for final status talks no later than May 1996 with a permanent settlement two years after that, must be negotiated -- and that has brought delays.

Elections, still without a date, should have been in July.

Yet the accord broke the logjam of the Middle East peace process begun in Madrid in 1991 and including Jordan, Syria and Lebanon. Jordan signed a peace treaty with Israel, the second by an Arab state after Egypt, on October 26.

Only talks with Syria, and by extension Lebanon where Syria is main powerbroker, have still to move off the mark.

Israel Television on Thursday screened parts of interviews done separately with Rabin and Arafat by actor Peter Ustinov.

""Not only by wars but by peace we can achieve what we are looking to achieve...for our children,"" said Arafat.

Rabin: ""(The) Nobel prize is nice...but the peace has not yet been achieved in its comprehensive meaning.""

On Friday, Rabin and Peres leave Israel and Arafat leaves Gaza for Oslo. They will be awarded the prize on Saturday.

(c) Reuters Limited 1994"	1	4	2	3	1	1			1.5	3.5
356	Italy	1994	6	Corporate	"ROME, Dec 20 (Reuter) - Italian crude oil imports totalled 55.71 million tonnes in the first nine months of 1994, down 1.3 percent from a year earlier, the industry association Unione Petrolifera said in a statement.

It gave the following breakdown for the main sources:

TD 

Source Mln tonnes Jan-Sept 1993 (pct) Market share (pct)

  Libya	  14.81	    +2.0		    28.3
  Ex-USSR	11.93	   +12.9		    22.8
  Saudi Arabia  8.76	   +10.6		    16.7
  Iran	    5.04	   -26.5		     9.6
  Egypt	   2.76	   -24.2		     5.3
  Syria	    2.12	   +1.0		     4.1
  Algeria	  1.32	   -7.3		     2.5
  North Sea	0.99	 +177.3		     1.9
(c) Reuters Limited 1994"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
226	Italy	1999	22	Corporate	"ROME, Dec 20 (Reuters) - The board of Italian insurer INA said on Monday it will call a shareholders' meeting on January 26 to vote on scrapping a rule that imposes a five percent ceiling on voting rights. 

The board also said in a statement it would make a public buy offer for all the ordinary shares of its Assitalia insurance unit of which INA already holds 93.35 percent. The bid has been agreed with Assicurazioni Generali which took over INA earlier this month. 
 
TD 
 The five percent voting ceiling was a feature of formerly privatised banks and insurance companies and meant to avoid hostile takeover bids. 

INA said it had decided to bid for the Assitalia shares it did not already own because of the small amount of stock quoted and to ensure further synergies and cost-savings. 

INA will offer 5.92 euros per Assitalia share, a premium of 24.6 percent over the average value of Assitalia shares in the past month, for a total value of 71.622 million euros. 

The offer is expected to start in February. 

Assitalia stock closed in Milan 3.74 percent up at 5.016 euros, INA shares ended 5.64 percent lower at 2.525 euros. ((Milan newsroom +3902 66129507, fax +3902 66101502, milan.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
328	Italy	2005	23	Corporate	"ROME, Dec 12 (Reuters) - Staff at Italy's central bank held an eight-hour strike on Monday in a dispute over contracts that some employees said was also a protest at the conduct of Governor Antonio Fazio in a cross-border bank takeover affair.

Bank of Italy sources said 50 to 85 percent of their members stopped working, paralysing the bank for the day.

TD 

Union leaders said that among the strikers were the two senior officials who wrote a report highlighting irregularities in Banca Popolare Italiana's bid for Banca Antonveneta , a takeover Fazio favoured over that of Dutch rival ABN AMRO .

""There's been a generally wide participation and it's been even more noticeable in the supervision department,"" said Omero Papi, secretary-general of the Cida union.

Luigi Leone, head of the Falbi union, said participation in the supervision department -- the part of the bank that works on Italian bank sector mergers -- was 70 percent, compared with 10 to 20 percent in previous strike actions.

The European Commission is set to launch legal action on Tuesday against the Bank of Italy over its handling of the Antonventa affair.

ABN AMRO complained to the European Union's executive body that the central bank used its role as competition watchdog to try to block a foreign bank buying an Italian competitor in what should be an open market across the 25-nation bloc."	1	5	1	4	0	2			1	4.5
130	Italy	2004	25	Corporate	"ROME, Dec 13 (Reuters) - Shares in Italy's Banca Nazionale del Lavoro (BANI.MI) led Milan's blue-chip gainers on Monday, the last day of a capital hike at the country's sixth-largest bank that is mired in merger speculation. 

BNL shares have risen 15 percent in the past month on stakebuilding by two rival groups of investors, one in favour of management, the other against. 
 
TD 
 Shares in the Rome-based bank closed up 5.1 percent at 2.08 euros, strongly outperforming a 0.9 percent rise in the DJ Stoxx index of European banks .Almost 129 million shares changed hands, equivalent to some 5.7 percent of BNL's capital, making it the Milan bourse's most active share on Monday. 

The main shareholder pact, which supports management that wants to keep the bank independent, is led by Spain's Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria (BBVA.MC) and holds 28.3 percent of BNL. 

The counter pact, led by cement-to-newspaper tycoon Francesco Caltagirone, owns 24.2 percent, including additional shares owned by entrepreneur Giuseppe Statuto. But it is aiming for 28.5 percent, sources close to the pact have said, just below the 30 percent threshold that could trigger a full buyout. 

The rebels want to outstrip the main pact's stake to grab the lion's share of board seats due to be renewed in April 2005. 

""The outcome will probably be a full takeover bid. They can't continue to fight like this because it blocks progress at the bank,"" Ifigest fund manager Giovanni Bizzarri said. 

The capital increase is intended to bolster BNL's weakly-capitalised balance sheet ahead of new accounting rules that come into force next year. 

It has said the sale of up to 805 million new shares will cover the estimated 850 million euro impact on its accounts. 

The hike sees 7 new shares for every 20 ordinary or savings shares held at a price of 1.38-1.52 euros per share. 
 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
499	Italy	1997	27	Political	"ROME, May 30 (Reuter) - Serie A games on Sunday, the last day of the Italian league season (kickoff 1430GMT):

Bologna (7) v Internazionale (3)

TD 

Both sides desperately need to win here. A win for Bologna might earn them a UEFA Cup play-off against Udinese, were the latter to lose away to AS Roma. A win for Inter might see them overtake or join second placed Parma in the battle for the second Champions League berth. In all probability, both will miss out with Inter confined to the UEFA Cup and Bologna edged out of Europe.

Juventus (1) v Lazio (4)

Motivation will be the problem here since Juventus have already won the title but are unlikely to produce champagne soccer in the wake of their Champions Cup final defeat by German side Borussia Dortmund in Munich on Wednesday. Lazio, too, are without motivation since they have have already earned their UEFA Cup spot for next season. Juventus coach Marcello Lippi and Lazio coach Dino Zoff are both likely to ring the changes and field reserve players.

AC Milan (10) v Cagliari (16)

The game does not matter to Milan, already out of European competition next season, and a whole lot to Cagliari still involved in a close three-way relegation battle with Piacenza and Perugia. Stefano Eranio, Paolo Maldini, Liberian George Weah and Marco Simone are just some of the Milan players ruled out by injury. Cagliari will miss Uruguayan midfielder Fabian O'Neill and defender Matteo Villa, both suspended.

Napoli (13) v Vicenza (8)

The computerised calendar has brought Thursday's Italian Cup champions Vicenza back face to face with Napoli in a league game of no significance whatsoever. In front of their home crowd, Napoli may be keen to exact some compensation for their Cup Final defeat. Vicenza's Uruguyan defender Gustavo Mendez is out through suspension.

Piacenza (15) v Perugia (14)

This is the crunch match of the day between two of the three sides -- Cagliari is the third -- still involved in a desperate relegation battle which will see two of them go down. Perugia come into the game three points clear of Piacenza and need only a draw to guarantee first division survival. If Cagliari beat Milan and Piacenza lose, however, it would mean almost certain relegation. Cagliari and Piacenza would then play-off to avoid the serie B. Perugia will be without two suspended players, Dutchman Michel Kreek and goalkeeper Luca Bucci. Piacenza are also missing suspended players, striker Gian Pietro Piovani and defenders Daniele Delli Carri and Cieto Polonia.

Reggiana (18) v Atalanta (12)

Another game of no signficance, since Reggiana have long since been relegated while Atalanta are sure to stay up. Only point of interest concerns Atalanta striker Filippo Inzaghi, the leading goalscorer with 22 this season, just one ahead of Sampdoria's Vincenzo Montella. He may be keen to get on the scoresheet to maintain his position.

Roma (11) v Udinese (6)

Another game which brings together one side, Roma, without motivation and another, Udinese, desperate for points. Roma are out of Europe but Udinese need only a point to earn an historic, first-ever European competition slot in the UEFA Cup. Udinese wheel out the big guns, with German Oliver Bierhoff, Brazilian Amoroso and Paolo Poggi leading the attack. Roma will be without Brazilian defender Aldair, who is on international duty, and will also miss suspended French defender Vincent Candela.

Sampdoria (5) v Fiorentina (9)

Nothing in this game for either side since Sampdoria have already ensured UEFA Cup participation next season while Fiorentina are long since out of Europe. But for one player, Sampdoria captain Roberto Mancini, the game could be significant since it is likely to mark his departure from the club after 15 seasons. The 32-year-old Mancini is expected to join Rome club Lazio next season. Another player with a motivation all of his own will be Sampdoria striker Vincenzo Montella, currently on 21 goals, just one behind Atalanta's Filippo Inzaghi.

Verona (17) v Parma (2)

Already-relegated Verona seem destined for a thrashing since Parma will be keen to pick up all three points and thus see off Internazionale in the battle for the runner-up spot and a consequent Champions League berth next season. Parma come into the game two points ahead of Inter, who are away to Bologna. Parma field their first choice attack of Enrico Chiesa and Argentine Hernan Crespo, while either Frenchman Reynald Pedros or Swede Tomas Brolin will be drafted into midfield to replace injured Croat Mario Stanic. Verona may have as many as six players on the injured list although Nicola Zanini and Filippo Maniero will, as usual, lead the attack.

(c) Reuters Limited 1997"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
297	Italy	2004	29	Political	"ROME, May 25 (Reuters) - Italy's parliament voted to extend the deadline for a controversial building amnesty on Tuesday, a scheme the government hopes will raise more than three billion euros to help rein in its budget deficit.

The amnesty, loathed by environmentalists, allows people who have built or extended houses without planning permission to legalise their constructions on the payment of a fine.

TD 

The deadline to apply for an amnesty was initially the end of March, but a legal challenge from several regional authorities dampened enthusiasm for the scheme and parliament voted to extend it until July 31.

Italy's Constitutional Court is due to rule in the coming weeks whether the amnesty is illegal, as the regions claim.

Italians have been wary of applying for fear that they will alert authorities to their illegal building without being granted an amnesty.

Opposition parliamentarian Fabrizio Vigni called the amnesty ""a failure for the state coffers and a devastating blow for the environment and legality"". The state had only received 10 percent of its target revenue, he told parliament.

The building amnesty is one of a range of one-off measures Italy has used to avoid bursting the European Union's three-percent-of-GDP budget deficit limit.

The European Commission, which has forecast Italy will breach that ceiling this year, has criticised the one-offs and called for more structural reforms to the euro zone's third largest economy."	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
36	Italy	1994	33	Political	"ROME, May 27 (Reuter) - Italy made a morale-boosting start to their World Cup soccer warm-up campaign with a 2-0 victory over Finland in a friendly international in Parma on Friday. 

Goals from Giuseppe Signori (24th minute) and Lazio team mate Pier Luigi Casiraghi (66th) gave the Italians their first win of the year, following defeats against France and Germany. 
 
TD 
 Coach Arrigo Sacchi's new frontline, which combines the goal-scoring talents of Signori, Roberto Baggio and Nicola Berti proved a constant thorn in the side of the Finnish defence. 

Signori had the ball in the net as early as the second minute but the referee disallowed the goal for offside. 

The striker gained revenge midway through the half, capitalising on a slip by defender Ari Heikkinen before rounding Markku Kanerva and beating goalkeeper Petri Jakonen with a low diagonal shot. 

The Finns, who have not won against Italy for 82 years, pushed forward in search of an equaliser, and, in the 28th minute, narrowly failed to capitalise on a mix-up between Alessandro Costacurta and Antonio Benarrivo. 

Ari Hjelm pulled the ball back across an open goal but Franco Baresi cleared his lines. 

Despite making four changes at halftime the Italians continued to dominate the contest and extended their lead after Jakonen failed to hold a freekick from Gianfranco Zola. 

Lorenzo Minotti struck the post with the rebound before Casiraghi deflected a shot from Antonio Conte into the net for his team's second goal. 

Italy continued to press for a third but Jakonen saved late efforts from Signori and Roberto Donadoni. 

The Italians, who open their World Cup bid with a match against Ireland on June 18, meet Switzerland at the Olympic stadium in Rome next Friday. 

Teams: 

Italy: 1-Luca Marchegiani; 2-Antonio Benarrivo (13-Mauro Tassotti, 45th minute); 3-Alessandro Costacurta; 6-Franco Baresi (14-Lorenzo Minotti, 45th); 5-Luigi Apolloni; 4-Antonio Conte (15-Roberto Donadoni,72nd); 7-Alberigo Evani; 8-Dino Baggio; 9-Nicola Berti (17-Pier Luigi Casiraghi, 45th); 10-Roberto Baggio (16-Gianfranco Zola, 45th); 11-Giuseppe Signori. 

Finland: 1-Petri Jakonen; 2-Jari Kinnunen; 3-Ari Heikkinen; 4-Erkka Petaja; 5-Markku Kanerva (14-Aki Hyrylainen, 68th); 6-Kim Suominen; 7-Jari Litmanen; 8-Janne Lindberg (16-Tommi Paavola, 71st); 9-Ari Hjelm; 10-Mika Aaltonen (Rami Rantanen, 88th); 11-Petri Jarvinen. 

 
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
174	Italy	2007	36	Corporate	"ROME, Dec 4 (Reuters) - A sharp surge in costs to develop liquefied natural gas projects risks halting a growth boom in the industry that has been driven by soaring demand, an Exxon Mobil Corp. executive said on Tuesday. 

Exxon, the world's largest publicly traded oil and gas group, expects global demand for LNG to double by 2010 and quadruple by 2020, said Tom Cordano, president of Exxon's LNG Market Development unit. 
 
TD 
 But a surge in project costs -- largely in the past few years -- could put the brakes on the bonanza for gas producers, he said. 

""There is a cloud hanging over this very optimistic picture for the LNG business and it's the cloud of project cost escalation,"" Cordano told an LNG summit in Rome. ""This is a very significant concern. It has the potential to really derail the great growth that we see coming along in our business."" 

Cordano declined to specify how much LNG project costs had risen for Exxon, but said he did not dispute figures from research group CERA that estimated project costs had risen by 80 percent since 2000. 

""We're hopeful we've seen the worst of the price increases,"" he said. ""But we didn't expect the dramatic spike in the last few years either."" 

Still, advances in technology and the development of high-cost gas pipeline projects in the former Soviet Union and Russia mean that LNG may not always forever remain the more expensive option in delivering gas, he said. 

""Historically pipeline gas was the inexpensive way to deliver natural gas and LNG the expensive way,"" he said. 

""That's starting to change. These new pipeline supplies that are going to be coming onstream in the coming years are going to be far from inexpensive."" (Reporting by Deepa Babington; editing by James Jukwey) 
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
373	Italy	1994	39	Political	"ROME, May 24 (Reuter) - Police on Tuesday blamed neo-Nazis for an attack on a left-wing social centre in Rome that injured two people in Italy's latest episode of extremist violence.

A police spokesman said a gang of about 15 masked youths, several of them armed with iron bars, burst into the centre late on Monday night and smashed up the premises.

TD 

Two people at the centre were injured, a woman aged 28 and an 18-year-old youth who needed seven stitches to a head wound.

Police said they believed those responsible for the attack were neo-Nazi skinheads, known in Italy as ""Naziskins"".

""We are practically certain from the evidence obtained that it was Naziskins,"" a police spokesman said.

He said police were keeping watch on offices, in the same area, of the neo-fascist-led National Alliance, a partner in prime minister Silvio Berlusconi's new government, for fear that extreme leftists could retaliate.

National Alliance leader Gianfranco Fini, whose neo-fascist Italian Social Movement has three ministers in the cabinet, has rejected leftist charges that his party's share in power has given succour to neo-Nazis.

Last week he branded skinheads ""air heads"" and said they should be sent to work in salt mines after hundreds of neo-Nazis dressed in black marched through the northern city of Vicenza giving the straight-armed fascist salute.

An anti-fascist march held in response in Vicenza last Saturday was marred when extreme leftists armed with clubs raided the local office of the National Alliance. They injured at least one person and smashed windows and furniture.

(c) Reuters Limited 1994"	1	3	2	4	1	1			1.5	3.5
329	Italy	2001	49	Corporate	"ROME, Dec 12 (Reuters) - Italy, which denied Guglielmo Marconi funding during his lifetime, honoured its greatest 20th-century inventor on Wednesday, 100 years after he created radio with three faint clicks heard across the Atlantic.

With the one experiment, Marconi proved that messages could be sent over thousands of miles (km), laying the foundation for modern day radio and later the digital age.

TD 

To celebrate the event, scientists in Italy beamed a message from near his birthplace of Bologna to the world's amateur radio operators by using the moon as a satellite dish, and politicians paid homage at a gala in Rome.

""We must remember the first big protagonist of globalisation was Italian, Marconi himself,"" Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi said during a ceremony at the Post and Telecommunications Museum that was attended by Marconi's daughter Elettra.

Communications Minister Maurizio Gasparri hailed Marconi as ""an Italian myth and authentic global village hero"". He said radio remained a symbol of liberty, as shown in Kabul when the first thing residents did after the fall of the hardline Taliban government was turn on the radio.

Marconi, whose father was a wealthy Italian landowner and mother from Ireland's Jameson whisky distillery family, was refused funding for his experiments by Italy, making many of his discoveries in England.

In 1896, he filed a patent for a system of telegraphy there and in 1897 founded the British Wireless Telegraph and Signal Company, transmitting messages over short distances for the British Royal family and military.

In 1901, the 27-year-old Marconi, educated privately in science after failing entrance exams at an Italian university, decided to put his theories to the test and attempt a trans-Atlantic wireless transmission.

On December 12, shortly after midday, and struggling through strong wind and static, he heard the three clicks of the letter S in Morse Code that marked the birth of the radio.

""The receiver on the table before me was very crude,"" Marconi later said. ""No valves, no amplifiers, not even a crystal. I was at last on the point of putting the correctness of all my beliefs to the test.""

OVERCOMING THE EARTH'S CURVE

The radio signals travelled 2,200 miles (3,500 km) from a transmitter Marconi had built in Cornwall to a blustery cliff on the Newfoundland coast, where Marconi received them with his assistant, George Kemp, proving that the curvature of the earth would not impede radio signals.

The first transmissions were in Morse Code. Speech transmission was not common until after the First World War.

To demonstrate the advance of technology, scientists near Bologna in central Italy were to transmit throughout the day a microwave message, including recordings of Marconi, by bouncing the transmission off the moon's surface and back to earth.

In 1909, ""the father of radio"" received the Nobel Prize for Physics jointly with German physicist Karl Ferdinand Braun.

In 1912, distress signals sent over his system helped save hundreds of passengers from the sinking Titanic.

The company that grew out of Marconi's work, British telecoms equipment maker Marconi Plc, has not fared as well as Marconi's invention, losing over five billion pounds ($7 billion) in the first half of this year.

Marconi died in Rome in 1937, one of the most celebrated men of his age, bestowed with honours at home and abroad."	1	5	2	5	1	0			1.5	5
383	Italy	1996	51	Political	"ROME, May 24 (Reuter) - Italy's Prime Minister Romano Prodi called on employers and workers on Friday to accept flexible labour contracts and for companies to hire more part-time employees.

In an address to the Senate, Prodi said ""we will ask unions and employers to do their bit (against unemployment) by also agreeing more flexible and less costly forms of labour.""

TD 

He said he was opposed to a request by the Marxist party Communist Refoundation to cut the working week to 35 hours ""because we will break the economy."" But he added ""we are obliged to experiment.""

Companies should be given incentives to take on more employees rather than to resort to asking their existing labour force to work more overtime, Prodi said. At present Italy had high unemployment while overtime working was widespread.

Prodi also advocated a reform of labour laws and called for a complete shakeup of vocational training. Milan newsroom +392-66102321

(c) Reuters Limited 1996"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
480	Italy	2002	53	Corporate	"ROME, Dec 10 (Reuters) - Fiat plans to hold a board meeting on Thursday to approve changes to the company's top management, Italian Industry Minister Antonio Marzano told the upper house of parliament on Tuesday.

Marzano said the government had been informed of the planned alterations to the Fiat management by Umberto Agnelli, head of one of the holdings used by the Agnelli family to control Fiat (FIA.MI).

TD 

Earlier on Tuesday, an informed source said the top two executives at crisis-struck Fiat were set to resign."	1	5	1	4	0	1			1	4.5
35	Italy	2009	77	Corporate	"ROME, May 13 (Reuters) - Fiat is discussing closing one of its plants in Italy and reducing operations at another, German unions have told their Italian counterparts, an official of Italy's FIM-CISL union told Reuters on Wednesday.

""We are very worried because, according to the Germans, Fiat is talking about downsizing Pomigliano (plant) and about the schedule for closing Termini Imerese,"" Bruno Vitali said.

He was speaking after a meeting in Frankfurt with German unions as Fiat seeks to merge its operations in Europe with GM's Opel unit.

Italian unions have said that Fiat's ambitious plan to create the world's second-biggest car maker is positive even though they are concerned about plant closures and job losses. [ID:nLC785605]

They have called for a meeting with the Italian government and the company. Industry Minister Claudio Scajola said he would meet ""all the parties at the right moment,"" adding he was ""in continuous contact with Fiat.""

German unions, who have previously expressed willingness to dig into their own pockets to help Opel, fear they will bear the brunt of plant closures and job losses. Some have come out in favour of a rival bid by Magna International Inc , an Austrian-Canadian car parts maker.

Fiat has already agreed to take a 20 percent stake in U.S. car maker Chrysler LLC [CBS.UL] alongside U.S. unions which will have a 55 percent stake in the combined group.

The Italian car maker would bring its expertise in building smaller, more environmentally-friendly cars to the deal with Chrysler -- but these vehicles would clearly overlap with Opel models in Europe.

Fiat's share of the market in the 15 main European countries in April is likely to be 9.9 percent, according to figures released on Wednesday by forecaster Global Insight, up from 9.2 percent in March. [ID:nMAT009566]

(Reporting by Francesca Piscioneri and Gianni Montani, writing by Jo Winterbottom; Editing by Andrew Callus)
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
131	Italy	2006	79	Political	"ROME, May 18 (Reuter) - Italian police on Wednesday arrested 10 people after cracking a heroin smuggling ring linking Turkey, the Balkans and Italy, magistrates said. 

They said police seized 40 kg (88 lb) of Turkish-made heroin that was transported through the Balkans for sale in Italy. 
 
TD 
 Police arrested five Italians, five Macedonians and placed 35 other people under investigation in the operation dubbed ""Macedonia"" which began nine months ago. 

Magistrates said the operation was carried out with the help of officials in Albania, Macedonia, Hungary and Turkey. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
495	Italy	1997	89	Political	"ROME, May 23 (Reuter) - Juventus clinched their 24th Italian league championship on Friday when they drew 1-1 with Atalanta at Bergamo.

The point puts Juventus beyond the reach of their nearest rivals Parma, who are seven points adrift with just two matches left to play.

TD 

(c) Reuters Limited 1997"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
394	Japan	2008	2	Corporate	"TOKYO, Dec 29 (Reuters Life!) - High speed 'bullet' trains ground to a halt across northern Japan on Monday due to a computer problem, stranding thousands of people heading home for New Year's family reunions.

A glitch in East Japan Railway's computer system stopped bullet train lines linking Tokyo with northern areas of the country for three hours, starting with the first train of the day, company spokesman Hideji Uchida said.

TD 

Crowds of passengers, including many families with small children, bundled up in woollen hats and thick coats to wait for the trains to restart.

""It's a real pain to have a problem like this at this time of year,"" a woman told broadcaster NHK as she waited at one station. ""I want them to deal with this properly.""

New Year's is one of the most important holidays in Japan, with many people traveling long distances to meet up with relatives, exchange gifts and pay visits to shrines and temples.

""I'm tired and frustrated,"" a middle-aged woman told NHK as she waited in a packed Tokyo station.

The error was resolved just before 9:00 a.m. (0000 GMT), but services were set to be disrupted for some time, the JR East spokesman said. (Reporting by Isabel Reynolds; Editing by Hugh Lawson)"	3	2	2	2	1	0		1	2.5	2
11	Japan	1997	11	Political	"TOKYO, Dec 17 (Reuters) - Japan marked the one-year anniversary on Wednesday of the start of the Lima hostage crisis with stepped-up security at its embassies worldwide. 

Government spokesman Kanezo Muraoka said the beefed-up security move was to prevent another hostage incident from occurring. 
 
TD 
 Numerous Japanese embassies and consulates around the world hold parties in December to celebrate the birthday of Emperor Akihito on the 23rd. 

Earlier this month Japan's Foreign Ministry said its embassy in Peru will not be throwing a party this year to celebrate the emperor's birthday after Marxist guerrillas crashed last year's diplomatic gala, starting a four-month hostage standoff. 

The birthday festivities will also be cancelled at the Japanese embassy in neighbouring Bolivia. 

A number of guerrillas from the Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement (MRTA), the group that blasted its way into the Japanese ambassador's residence in Lima last year, are being held in Bolivian and Peruvian prisons. 

The ministry said it is up to the ambassadors and diplomatic staff in each country to decide if they will mark the emperor's birthday this year. 

Due to last year's hostage crisis, a number of embassies and consulates will scale down celebrations, beef up security and hold the event away from Japanese diplomatic premises, ministry officials said. 

((Tokyo newsroom (813) 3432-8018 email: tokyo.newsroom@reuters.com)) 

 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
56	Japan	2005	13	Political	"TOKYO, Dec 13 (Reuters) - Japan is to tighten checks on bars and clubs employing foreign women from next year in an effort to crack down on human trafficking, Kyodo news agency said on Tuesday. 

Managers of such businesses will be required to provide proof that their employees have work permits under a revision to the law on adult entertainment that will take effect in May, the report said. 
 
TD 
 Japan has been criticised in the past by the U.S. State Department for its lax attitude towards human trafficking, and it specifically outlawed the practice only this year. 

Those found guilty of violating the revised law will be banned from operating adult entertainment businesses such as hostess bars, the report said. 

The move comes months after Japan in March toughened rules allowing foreign women to obtain visas as entertainers, in a bid to prevent them from being forced into prostitution. 

Most of those who entered the country on entertainer visas in the past were from the Philippines, and many ended up employed as bar hostesses, pouring drinks rather than singing or dancing. 

In some cases, employers have confiscated their passports and forced them to pay large sums out of their salaries, according to published reports. 

The revision to the law will also try to rein in the public nuisance aspect of sex-related businesses by introducing fines of up to 1 million yen ($8,350) for unsolicited distribution of pornographic pamphlets advertising prostitutes' services, Kyodo said. 

Residents of many parts of Japan, where a narrow legal definition of prostitution means that ""erotic massage"" and other services are permitted, find their home mailboxes stuffed with such material each day. 

Aggressive touting of sex services in the street will also be punishable by fines, the report said. 

Japan's National Police Agency said the law would take effect in May, but a spokesman said he could not immediately confirm its contents. ($1=119.76 Yen) 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
187	Japan	2006	17	Political	"TOKYO, Dec 19 (Reuters) - A scandal over the head of a government tax panel who has been living with a girlfriend in an upscale apartment for civil servants could nibble away at Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's support rates, analysts said on Tuesday. 

Calls for Tax Commission chairman Masaaki Homma to resign came after a weekly magazine reported that he had been living in a subsidised Tokyo flat with the woman while his wife stayed at home in Osaka, western Japan. 
 
TD 
 Some key cabinet ministers appeared to be rallying around Homma, an Osaka University economics professor and a former member of a government economic policy panel. 

""We want him to fulfil his responsibilities as tax commission chairman,"" Chief Cabinet Secretary Yasuhisa Shiozaki told a news conference on Tuesday, echoing a similar call by Abe himself a day earlier. 

Finance Minister Koji Omi also said he saw no ""procedural problem"" with Homma's housing and said the tax panel chief should stay on and work out tax reform. 

Others were more critical. 

""He has lost the trust of the people once,"" Kyodo news agency quoted Sanae Takaichi, whose portfolios include gender equality, as saying. ""I think Prime Minister Abe must be distressed. I want to see what he (Homma) decides."" 

Former foreign minister Nobutaka Machimura, now a member of a ruling Liberal Democratic Party tax panel, suggested on Monday that Homma's actions were out of line with Abe's call to make Japan a ""beautiful country"" that respects traditional values. 

""What concerns me is that deeds unworthy of a beautiful nation have been seen here and there,"" Kyodo quoted Machimura as saying. 

Homma has acknowledged he had been living in the apartment despite not being a full-time civil servant and said he was dating the woman while getting a divorce. He also apologised. 

Abe's popularity has already been dented since he took office in September by doubts about his commitment to economic reform and a furore over rigged ""town meetings"" at which officials planted questions on key policies such as education. 

Abe's success last week in passing a bill to put more patriotism in the schools, one of his key policy planks, could be expected to give his ratings a welcome boost, but that may now be offset by the fuss over Homma's housing, said Iwao Osaka, an assistant professor at the University of Tokyo. 

Homma, tapped for the tax post last month, is a supporter of Abe's stance favouring spending cuts over an early sales tax rise to balance the budget, meaning his resignation would be a serious blow to Abe, analysts said
 
"	2	5	2	5	0	0			2	5
412	Japan	1997	22	Political	"TOKYO, Dec 17 (Reuters) - Japan marked the one-year anniversary on Wednesday of the start of the Lima hostage crisis with stepped-up security at its embassies worldwide.

Government spokesman Kanezo Muraoka said the beefed-up security move was to prevent another hostage incident from occurring.

TD 

Numerous Japanese embassies and consulates around the world hold parties in December to celebrate the birthday of Emperor Akihito on the 23rd.

Earlier this month Japan's Foreign Ministry said its embassy in Peru will not be throwing a party this year to celebrate the emperor's birthday after Marxist guerrillas crashed last year's diplomatic gala, starting a four-month hostage standoff.

The birthday festivities will also be cancelled at the Japanese embassy in neighbouring Bolivia.

A number of guerrillas from the Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement (MRTA), the group that blasted its way into the Japanese ambassador's residence in Lima last year, are being held in Bolivian and Peruvian prisons.

The ministry said it is up to the ambassadors and diplomatic staff in each country to decide if they will mark the emperor's birthday this year.

Due to last year's hostage crisis, a number of embassies and consulates will scale down celebrations, beef up security and hold the event away from Japanese diplomatic premises, ministry officials said.

((Tokyo newsroom (813) 3432-8018 email: tokyo.newsroom@reuters.com))

(c) Reuters Limited 1997"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
335	Japan	1997	35	Political	"TOKYO, Nov 28 (Reuters) - Japanese oil trader Junichiro Izui, accused of fraud, bribery and tax evasion, said on Friday he had given millions of dollars to senior legislators from the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP).

In what could be a fresh blow to Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto's government, Izui told parliament he had funnelled a total of some 290 million yen ($2.28 million) to several senior politicians including Foreign Minister Keizo Obuchi.

TD 

Testifying as a sworn witness in parliament, he said he gave 78 million yen ($614,000) to LDP policy research head Taku Yamasaki and about 200 million yen ($1.57 million) to late foreign minister Michio Watanabe in the early 1990s.

The list of politicians who Izui said he had donated political funds to included present Foreign Minister Keizo Obuchi and LDP's General Council Chairman Yoshiro Mori.

Izui -- on trial for alleged fraud, bribery and tax evasion -- said he had given five million yen ($39,300) to Obuchi and 10 million yen ($78,700) to Mori.

But Izui said he had not asked the politicians for any favours in exchange for the funds.

The LDP legislators including Yamasaki and Obuchi have denied any wrongdoing.

The explosive affair is one of a number of critical political issues threatening Prime Minister Hashimoto.

The wealthy oil product wholesaler, arrested a year ago on suspicion of evading 330 million yen ($2.59 million) in income tax on oil trade commissions, was at the heart of an insider trading scandal which saw the resignation of two top Mitsubishi Oil Co Ltd officials.

In April, Izui pleaded guilty to the tax evasion charges.

Izui has boasted of close ties to high-ranking politicians and bureaucrats who he allegedly wined and dined.

He is known in the oil industry for his aggressive management style and a global strategy reflecting his strong desire to take the lead in Vietnam's fledgling oil exploration.

The arrest of the Osaka oil dealer prompted a ministry survey which revealed that more than 100 bureaucrats had dined, had drinks, or played golf with Izui, and several senior civil servants have been disciplined over the case.

((Tokyo Newsroom (813) 3432-8018

tokyo.newsroom@reuters.com))

($1=127 yen)

(c) Reuters Limited 1997"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
81	Japan	1998	40	Political	"TOKYO, Nov 30 (Reuters) - A Japanese whaling factory ship, crippled by fire off the east coast of Australia earlier this month, will be brought back to Japan for repairs, government officials said on Monday. 

The 7,575-tonne Nisshin Maru was expected to return to Japan and undergo ""comprehensive"" repair work in December, the Japan Fisheries Agency officials said. 
 
TD 
 The repair work would be completed by the end of this year or by early in January, they said. 

The vessel, mother ship for Japan's five-vessel whaling fleet, was towed to New Caledonia for emergency repairs after catching fire on November 19 off the east coast of Australia. 

Agency officials said the vessel was expected to resume whaling operations soon after the repairs were completed. 

They said, however, that the problems could force Japan to scale down what they described as ""scientific research whaling"" for the time being. 

""A downscaling of research whaling plans is unavoidable at this point due to the fire, but research is still possible for this season,"" one official said. 

The Japanese fleet, including three ""catcher"" vessels and a ""sighter"" vessel, left southern Japan on November 7. 

Japan started ""scientific research"" whaling in 1987 after a commercial moratorium on whaling, but Greenpeace has said the practice is not purely scientific and that the meat from last year's expedition fetched some $50 million on the open market in Japan. 

Last April, the fleet returned with 438 minke whales, representing an estimated 1,700 tonnes of meat. 

Japan catches whales for research pruposes in an Antarctic sanctuary set up in 1994 by the International Whaling Commission, to which Japan belongs. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
19	Japan	2001	47	Corporate	"TOKYO, Dec 21 (Reuters) - Honda Motor Co Ltd, Japan's third-largest carmaker, on Friday launched a new compact minivan that uses the same platform as its top-selling Fit car. 

The seven-seater Mobilio, powered by a fuel-efficient 1.5-litre engine, would be priced from 1.389 million yen ($10,780) and sold exclusively in Japan, Honda said. 
 
TD 
 The company, which is targeting monthly sales of 5,000 units, said it had no plans to export the vehicle. 

The Mobilio is expected to compete with Toyota Motor's Spacio minivan, industry sources said. 

Honda and Toyota are enjoying strong demand for new models in Japan, but other carmakers are struggling. 

The Fit was Japan's top-selling car in November, beating Toyota's Corolla, the nation's most popular sedan. 

Honda, which launched the Fit in June, had sold a cumulative 86,843 units by the end of November. 

Shares in Honda ended morning trade at 5,000 yen, up 0.6 percent, while the Nikkei average fell 1.41 percent. ($1=128.80 yen). 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
61	Japan	2001	48	Corporate	"TOKYO, Dec 21 (Reuters) - Japanese trading house Nissho Iwai Corp said on Friday it aims to unload about 660 billion yen ($5.12 billion) of group assets to pay back part of its more than two trillion yen in interest-bearing debts. 

The company, Japan's sixth-largest trading firm, said it planned to sell 20 percent of its 3.3 trillion yen in assets through the sale of securities holdings and properties. 
 
TD 
 ""We want to assure investors that we are serious about reducing our debt levels,"" a company spokesman said. 

Nissho Iwai shares, like those of other Japanese corporates with shaky balance sheets, have been sold heavily in recent weeks after the failure of mid-sized contractor Aoki Corp . 

Investors are concerned that as banks get tougher with problem loans, more companies could go under. 

That trend was continuing on Friday as Nissho Iwai shares were the morning's eighth-most actively traded on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, down 9.33 percent at 68 yen by midday. The Nikkei 225 average was down 1.41 percent. 

The shares had opened up one yen at 76, after the daily Nihon Keizai Shimbun reported the firm planned to cut its parent workforce by 700, or 25 percent to 2,600 employees within three years. 

However, the company said no final decision had been reached. 

Nissho Iwai's credit rating took a blow one week ago when Moody's Investors Service cut its senior unsecured debt ratings to B2 from B1. 

The downgrade came as the company was falling prey to concerns about widening credit spreads. ($1=128.80 yen). 
 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
421	Japan	1993	55	Political	"TOKYO, Dec 18 (Reuter) - U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali arrived in Japan on Saturday at the start of a tour that will include North Korea, under international pressure to open its nuclear sites to inspection.

Boutros-Ghali said this week his visit to the isolated Stalinist state, the first by a U.N. chief since 1979, was a fact-finding mission and he would not mediate in its nuclear dispute with the United States.

TD 

The North denies it is on the verge of making nuclear weapons and has vowed not to yield to pressure, including possible U.N. sanctions, to open two nuclear sites at Yongbyon to international inspectors.

In March North Korea gave notice that it would withdraw from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. It suspended the threat pending talks with the United States but Washington insists the North resume dialogue with South Korea before there can be any more discussions.

North Korea says negotiations with the United States are the only way to resolve the issue.

The U.N. leader begins his Japan visit on a sombre note. On Sunday he will visit the father of Japanese U.N. civilian volunteer Atsuhito Nakata, who was killed while serving in Cambodia in April.

Japan also sent troops to the U.N. peacekeeping force in Cambodia, its first overseas military deployment since World War Two.

Boutros-Ghali will meet Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa and other leaders to discuss plans for enlarging the U.N. Security Council to accommodate Japan, along with Germany, as permanent members.

He flies to South Korea next Wednesday and is due to cross the demilitarised zone separating the two Koreas on December 24.

Boutros-Ghali ends his tour in China, North Korea's sole major ally. The West has urged the Chinese to intercede with Pyongyang on the nuclear issue.

A Foreign Ministry spokeswoman in Beijing confirmed on Saturday that the U.N. chief's visit was going ahead.

(c) Reuters Limited 1993"	1	5	2	5	1	0			1.5	5
290	Japan	1990	65	Political	"TOKYO, Nov 16, Reuter - For a tribesman from the Malaysian jungle, coming to Tokyo's concrete jungle for the first time is a baffling experience.

""I've never been in a place where you can go underground, and everything is high, and everywhere there are people,"" said Jangin Tabilong of the Kelabit. ""I would never live in Tokyo.""

TD 

Tabilong is one of six tribesmen from Sarawak in eastern Malaysia who have braved the culture shock to tell Japan of the human tragedy caused by the rapid destruction of the rainforests where their ancestors have lived for centuries.

Japan's giant trading companies are the biggest customers for the loggers who lay waste to vast tracts of jungle to meet demand for such modern artefacts as wall-panelling, papers bags and disposable chopsticks.

Swapping his tiny village of 500 for a megalopolis with nearly 12 million inhabitants caused the tribesman's eyes to open wide in wonderment.

""We have large areas at home. I can walk the whole day and not get lost. Here, I go around a building one time and get lost,"" said Tabilong, his rugged, brazen face grinning through well-worn teeth.

He wore his tribal straw hat set off with a green sweatshirt saying ""souvenirs"", bought here in Japan to keep out the draughts. The others wore borrowed suits.

""The most interesting thing is Tokyo Tower,"" said Linus Yurud Mumin of the Iban tribe. ""I've never seen a tower so high and good-looking.""

The stark red-and-white structure, Tokyo's answer to the Eiffel Tower, is now itself dwarfed by skyscrapers. In Mumin's village all the buildings are simple, low, wooden structures.

Juwin Lehan of the Penan people was resplendent in a blue suit, a straw hat with feathers sticking out, and a gold watch. Many Penans think a watch is for decoration.

""People ask 'Why do you need a watch when you have this?',"" he said, pointing to a rattan bracelet made by his people.

Despite the watch, Lehan said he can't imagine living here.

""I'm stunned. I don't hear the sounds of birds, the real sounds, only the sounds of engines. I look in front and behind and there are only buildings, no trees,"" said the 45-year-old father of nine.

There are now not many trees left in Sarawak either. At present logging rates, Sarawak's once vast rainforests will be entirely destroyed within six years, according to Japan Tropical Forest Action Network (JATAN). Sarawak is the world's main tropical timber exporting region. Half the logs come to Japan.

The council of the International Tropical Timber Organisation (ITTO) began a week-long meeting in Yokohama on Friday. One agenda item is the social and environmental impact of logging in Sarawak, and this is the reason for the visit.

A special ITTO mission to Sarawak filed a report in May recommending a 30 per cent cut in current levels of logging.

But JATAN and other non-governmental organisations want to go further, demanding a moratorium on logging in native areas. Half of Sarawak's 1.5 million people are tribesmen.

""We came here personally to convey this message. If no one will help us, we will die because the forest is our source of livelihood,"" Tabilong told reporters. ""You may have bought a lot of timber from Sarawak before, but I want you to buy no more.""

Most of the trees are gone now, Lehan said. Logging brings soil erosion and in turn contamination of the water, killing the fish and causing diseases in villages like the one he lives in, with its 100 men, women and children.

Wild boar used to abound in the forest. Now native hunters may take two to three weeks to find one to kill, Lehan said. The staple food, sago, must be supplemented with rice because the palm tree the flour was made from has become scarce.

Logging is carried out day and night, and new, much more efficient methods mean trees can be felled even faster, villagers say.

They say the extent of the problem has pushed them to a desperate form of protest. Many have been arrested after forming human roadblocks to try to stop the loggers. A law passed in November 1987 made obstruction of logging roads a criminal offence.

Now logging concessions cover about two-thirds of the land in Sarawak, said Chee Yoke Ling of Sahabat Alam Malaysia, Friends of the Earth Malaysia. She said concessions were mainly owned by politicans, with little money going to the tribes.

But Lehan is hopeful. He bought a camera in Japan. No one else in his Penan village owns one. ""People don't understand what this thing is all about.""

He said the camera will be used to document the jungle tragedy. Perhaps it could prove as potent a weapon as the video cameras used by the beleaguered Amazonian Indians to publicise their own ecological plight.

""Even if we stop now, there is still hope because certain parts of the forest would survive,"" Lehan said."	2	5	2	5	0	0			2	5
157	Japan	1993	66	Corporate	"TOKYO, Dec 22, Reuter - Nissan Motor Co Ltd forecasts its 1993 vehicle exports at 870,000, down 7.7 pct from the year before, president Yoshifumi Tsuji told a news conference. 

Tsuji estimated Nissan's vehicle exports at 943,000 in 1992, down 1.9 pct from a year ago, due to lower shipments to the U.S. and Europe more than offsetting higher exports to Latin America and the Middle East. 
 
TD 
 Nissan expects domestic sales of 1.27 million vehicles in 1993, up 5.8 pct, helped by launches of new models and the 1993 Tokyo Motor Show which are expected to stimulate domestic demand. 

Nissan's 1992 vehicle sales are estimated at 1.20 million, down 10.7 pct from a year ago, mainly due to fewer launches of new models, Tsuji said. 

Nissan's overseas vehicle output will rise 22.4 pct from a year ago to 1.06 million vehicles in 1993 after a 15.2 pct year- on-year gain to 866,000 in 1992 due to production of the Altima model in the U.S., the Micra in Britain and the Serena in Spain. 

Nissan's Japanese production will be little changed from the year before at 2.14 million vehicles in 1993. 

Tsuji forecast Japan's overall domestic vehicle demand at 7.10 million in 1993, up 1.9 pct from a year ago. 

Overall domestic demand excluding mini-vehicles will be 5.46 million in 1993, up 2.1 pct from the year before, Tsuji said. 

Nissan will launch special versions of some models in Japan to commemorate its 60th anniversary in 1993, he said. 

Nissan is expected to completely remodel its Laurel, Skyline and Silvia models in 1993, car industry sources said. 

 
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
428	Japan	1997	67	Corporate	"TOKYO, Dec 24 (Reuters) - Honda Motor Co Ltd said on Wednesday it expects its domestic vehicle production in 1998 to fall 0.4 percent from the current year to 1.3 million vehicles.

Japan's third-biggest carmaker also said that it expects its domestic sales in 1998 to rise 0.9 percent from this year to 810,000 vehicles.

TD 

It forecast that its 1998 exports would fall 8.6 percent year-on-year to 500,000 units while its overseas output would rise 8.0 percent to 1.15 million units.

""Our domestic car sales are expected to reach a projected 800,000-unit level this year, despite tough conditions,"" Honda president Nobuhiko Kawamoto told a news conference.

Honda said in a statement its domestic sales in calendar 1997 are estimated at 803,000 vehicles, up 5.4 percent from a year earlier.

Honda also said its vehicle exports in 1997 will total 547,000 units, up 47.4 percent from a year earlier.

Domestic vehicle production is estimated at 1.305 million units in 1997, up 19.5 percent from a year earlier. Overseas output will total 1.065 million units, up 1.1 percent.

Honda estimated Japan's overall vehicle production in 1998 at 6.70 million units, including 1.50 million 660cc minivehicles, little changed from a year earlier.

Kawamoto said the projected fall in its 1998 exports was mainly due to slow shipments to Southeast Asia.

Koichi Amemiya, an executive vice president, said exports to the United States in 1998 were expected to remain unchanged from an estimated 240,000 units in 1997.

Honda's exports to Europe in 1998 were expected to rise to 250,000 from an estimated 230,000 in 1997, another official said.

Honda, the world's biggest motorcycle maker, said it expects its domestic sales of motorcycles to be 640,000 units in 1998, up 1.6 percent from a projected 2.5 percent fall in 1997.

It plans to export 470,000 motorcycles in 1998, down 7.1 percent from a year earlier, after a projected 0.9 percent decline this year.

Honda expects its exports of motorcycle components for use in overseas production to fall 14.5 percent from a year earlier to 3.83 million sets in 1998, after a projected 4.7 percent gain in 1997. ((Tokyo Equities Desk +81-3 3432-9404 tokyo.equities.newsroom@reuters.com))

(c) Reuters Limited 1997"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
195	Japan	1998	69	Corporate	"TOKYO, Dec 21 (Reuters) - Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd (IBJ) said on Monday it was considering setting up seven units which would operate effectively as independent firms. 

A bank spokesman said the structure was being considered as part of a new business plan for three years starting from next April in view of Japan's ""Big Bang"" financial deregulation. 
 
TD 
 The units would include asset management, investment banking and corporate financing. 

The bank is also looking at the possibility of introducing a holding company structure, he said. 

IBJ is also mulling reducing the number of board directors to about 10 from the current 30 in efforts to speed up decision-making by management, he said. 

 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
207	Japan	2000	70	Political	"TOKYO, Dec 8 (Reuters) - Support for the new cabinet of Japanese Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori has jumped sharply, but most voters also want the cabinet to step down soon, according to an opinion poll published on Friday. 

The poll, conducted by the Yomiuri Shimbun daily on Wednesday and Thursday, also found that 75 percent of the 1,500 respondents ""expected nothing"" from Mori, mainly because his political stance was unclear. 
 
TD 
 The rise in support to 30 percent was good news for Mori, whose ratings prior to the Tuesday cabinet reshuffle had been stuck below the crucial 20 percent level, which has spelt the end for previous prime ministers. 

Mori's support in the previous Yomiuri poll, conducted in November, was 18.4 percent, a reflection of voter dissatisfaction with a string of verbal blunders and the resignation of two cabinet ministers due to scandals. 

Yet despite the jump in support, a total of 61.1 percent of respondents said they were slightly or extremely dissatisfied with the cabinet, and 51.1 percent said they wanted it to quit ""as soon as possible"". 

No reasons were given for their response. 

While the line-up of the cabinet that took office on Tuesday is heavy with experience, including two former prime ministers, it has also been criticised for being aimed more at prolonging Mori's tenuous hold on power than tackling numerous challenges facing the nation. 

New cabinets, however, frequently see a surge of popularity. Mori had an initial support rate of around 40 percent after he took office in April following the collapse of predecessor Keizo Obuchi with a fatal stroke. 

The Yomiuri added that the increased support could also be due to Mori's defeat last month of a no-confidence vote after an internal rebellion within his long-ruling Liberal Democratic Party ended with a tearful retreat by his reformist rival, Koichi Kato. 

However, reflecting an apparent desire for change, some 59 percent said they wished Kato had decided to support the no-confidence motion. Kato and his allies, combined with opposition votes, could have passed the motion and forced Mori either to step down or call a general election. 

Some 75 percent said they did not approve of the decision by Kato and his allies to abstain from voting, which led to the motion's defeat. 
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
411	Japan	2001	70	Corporate	"TOKYO, Dec 20 (Reuters) - Japanese trading giant Mitsui & Co Ltd said on Thursday it would form a broad steel alliance with China's biggest steelmaking group, which includes Shanghai Baoshan Iron & Steel Co .

The tie-up, which would be the first with a non-steelmaking firm for Shanghai Baoshan, would involve building materials and equipment.

TD 

The partners plan to set up a joint venture by the middle of next year to supply building materials and equipment mainly to Japanese engineering firms planning to build plants in China, such as JGC Corp and Chiyoda Corp .

Mitsui, which will put up as much as 50 percent of the capital for the venture, hopes the business will generate $50 million in sales in the first year.

The materials and equipment will initially be procured through between 50 and 60 local suppliers that already provide items to the Chinese steelmaker, but suppliers will eventually include foreign firms.

Mitsui and Shanghai Baoshan also plan to set up a new firm next spring that will cut and process steel products for use in consumer electronics and automobiles.

The joint venture will manage Mitsui's six steel-processing plants in China and Shanghai Baoshan's seven, and may build more if required.

The joint venture will eventually have combined annual steel processing capacity of 2.5 million metric tonnes, more than double the current figure of one million tonnes.

Mitsui and Shanghai Baoshan have also agreed to cooperate in steel distribution and e-commerce businesses in China.

Shares in Mitsui were up 0.17 percent or one yen at 576 at 0122 GMT, in line with the market's broader TOPIX index."	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
434	Japan	1990	73	Corporate	"TOKYO, Nov 26, Reuter - Civil engineering machinery maker Komatsu Ltd hopes to quadruple its sales of construction and industrial robots to 20 billion yen in the year to March 31, 1994, from an estimated five billion in 1990/91, a spokesman said.

It plans to introduce three or four new models of construction robot each year and rationalise its sales outlets for industry machinery, he said.

TD 

Investment in plant and equipment for the expansion will start in 1991/92 or later, the spokesman said. He was unable to give the value of the investment.

Sales of such robots were a relatively small part of Komatsu's overall sales of 628.47 billion yen in 1989/90, the spokesman said.

The company earlier this month forecast 1990/91 sales at 685 billion yen.

Demand for construction robots, which do such work as painting the outer walls of a tall building and sweeping on building sites, is growing as people increasingly shun such dirty and dangerous work."	1	2	1	2	0	3			1	2
430	Japan	1994	79	Political	"TOKYO, Dec 11 (Reuter) - The mist over Japan's political landscape partly cleared on the weekend to reveal a nation moving towards a middle-of-the-road system of government where voters mainly choose between just two parties.

Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama's government was still standing having fought off for the moment splits in its coalition while nine oppposition groups came together at a showbiz-type convention to form a grand new party.

TD 

The result sets the scene, possibly as early as next spring, for one of Japan's most closely-contested elections.

It is likely to be a poll where style, more than substance, decides the winner.

The big news of the weekend was Saturday's convention where the New Frontier Party (NFP) was formally launched to the music of Beethoven's ninth symphony ""Ode to Joy"", performed by a 300 person chorus and full orchestra.

The country's newest and largest opposition party called for a ""third opening"" of Japan to the world.

Party head Toshiki Kaifu, a popular prime minister under a different banner from 1989 to 1991, said the NFP should make radical reforms in political, social and economic structures similiar to fundamental changes that previously swept Japan.

He was referring to 1854 when the United States navy arrived to end three centuries of isolation and 1945 when the same navy paved the way for an introduction of democracy.

But in a contradiction seized on by television commentators on Sunday morning, the call for change was made by a man once at the heart of Japan's political establishment.

Kaifu and his deputy Ichiro Ozawa, the architect of the new party, were once members of the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) which ruled Japan from 1955 until it was unseated last year.

It is now just the senior partner in Murayama's coaltion which has about a 35-seat majority in the 511-seat lower house.

Since last year's toppling of the LDP, the Japanese voter has lived through four prime ministers in 18 months.

Asahi Television talk show host Soichiro Tahara, one of Japan's most pugnacious television interviewers, challenged Kaifu on Sunday to flesh out his party's policies.

""I""ve been reborn politically. I am telling voters to keep an eye on the new Toshiki Kaifu,"" he said.

They were almost the identical words uttered by the prime miniter three months ago when his Socialist party dropped its opposition to matters like stationing of U.S. troops in Japan and nuclear power stations.

Murayama's resolve to carry the reforms through set off strains in his coalition about whether a ""third party"" should be born.

But it also staked out for his government a middle ground which the NFP, and its mainly middle class delegates at the 6,000-person convention, see as their opposition.

""We will support the government as long as they keep up with correct reforms,"" said Kaifu on the eve of the NFP's convention.

""But if not, well we can surely replace them,"" he said.

To head off the challenges in his own party, the prime minister, who is likely to visit the United States next month, agreed to open only for ""discussion"" formation of a ""new"" party fromn within his Socialists.

""Political parties should build policies first, then worry about attracting followers and raising funds,"" one veteran politician said.

(c) Reuters Limited 1994"	1	4	1	5	0	1			1	4.5
337	Japan	1990	82	Corporate	"TOKYO, Nov 26, Reuter - Civil engineering machinery maker Komatsu Ltd hopes to quadruple its sales of construction and industrial robots to 20 billion yen in the year to March 31, 1994, from an estimated five billion in 1990/91, a spokesman said.

It plans to introduce three or four new models of construction robot each year and rationalise its sales outlets for industry machinery, he said.

TD 

Investment in plant and equipment for the expansion will start in 1991/92 or later, the spokesman said. He was unable to give the value of the investment.

Sales of such robots were a relatively small part of Komatsu's overall sales of 628.47 billion yen in 1989/90, the spokesman said.

The company earlier this month forecast 1990/91 sales at 685 billion yen.

Demand for construction robots, which do such work as painting the outer walls of a tall building and sweeping on building sites, is growing as people increasingly shun such dirty and dangerous work."	1	2	1	2	0	3			1	2
52	Japan	2005	85	Corporate	"TOKYO, Aug 17 (Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc. may open large stores under its own name in Japan next year, boosting its presence in a tough market, its Japanese affiliate Seiyu Ltd. said on Wednesday. 
 
TD 
 Loss-making Seiyu, 42.4 percent owned by the world's biggest retailer, is considered key to Wal-Mart's expansion plans in the Japanese market, which has thwarted many foreign retailers including France's Carrefour that entered on their own. 

Wal-Mart reportedly plans to make Seiyu a subsidiary at the end of this year when it has an option to raise its stake in Japan's fourth-largest retailer to 50.1 percent, although both companies have said no decision had been made. 

It has another option to raise the stake to 66.7 percent by the end of 2007. 

The Japanese retailer said that using the globally known name was one choice but that nothing had been decided. 

""For many parts of Japan, the name Seiyu is a familiar presence to our customers,"" a Seiyu spokesman said. 

""We don't know if having the Wal-Mart name would boost our image. The ultimate decision will be decided from the customers' point of view."" 

The Nihon Keizai business daily reported earlier that some of Seiyu's ""supercentres"", or discount supermarkets, scheduled to open in 2006 would be named ""Wal-Mart Seiyu"". 

Shares in Seiyu leaped over 10 percent on Wednesday although analysts said the use of Wal-Mart's name would not promise higher sales at the struggling retailer. 

""Customers don't shop because of the name,"" said Jun Kawahara, analyst at Shinko Securities. 

""Seiyu lacks branding power and so does Wal-Mart in Japan. So either way, customers will buy if they like the products and the change of name would not likely affect Seiyu's sales."" 

Seiyu, which has more than 400 stores in Japan, will report its first-half earnings results on Thursday. 

Last month it widened its net loss forecast for the six months to June to 10.5 billion yen ($95.80 million) from 3 billion yen due to sluggish sales. 

It also said at the time it expected to fall into the red for the year to December for the fourth-straight year with a net loss of 7.5 billion yen, compared with a consensus net loss projection of 7.95 billion yen in a Reuters Estimates poll of four analysts. 

Wal-Mart also warned on Tuesday profit in the current third quarter would likely fall shy of Wall Street expectations as steep oil prices hurt consumer spending, particularly among low-income customers. 

Seiyu has long struggled to adopt its U.S. parent's sales strategy and systems after Wal-Mart waded into Japan in 2002 with a 6 percent stake in the retailer. Wal-Mart has gradually raised its stake since then. 

Shares in Seiyu closed up 8.72 percent at 212 yen. The Nikkei average ended down 0.35 percent. ($1=109.59 yen) 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
322	Japan	2000	88	Political	"TOKYO, Dec 5 (Reuters) - In a move that could lend support to embattled Japanese Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori, former prime minister Ryutaro Hashimoto on Tuesday accepted a request to join a new cabinet to be formed later in the day, domesitc media said.

The surprise move implies greater support for Mori, one of Japan's least popular prime ministers ever, from the largest faction in the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP).

TD 

It could boost Mori's chances of remaining in office at least through March, when the national budget for the fiscal year from April 1, 2001 is expected to be enacted, analysts said.

A prolonged Mori government would disappoint many Japanese voters, who see him as an embarrassment, and investors in Japan's financial markets, who view him as incapable of implementing the sort of economic reforms needed to foster long-term growth and tackle a public debt already the worst among advanced nations."	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
98	Japan	1995	90	Political	"TOKYO, Oct 27 (Reuter) - Japan's defence ministry proposed on Friday to cut about 20 percent of its allowed quota of troops and weapons in the first comprehensive review of the country's military strength in two decades, officials said. 

The defence ministry's proposed cuts will form the basis of a new, post-Cold War version of Japan's long-term defence policy guideline, called the Defence Programme Outline, to be issued in December. The current one was adopted in 1976. 
 
TD 
 ""Prime Minister Murayama will take this table (ministry's draft proposal) into account to prepare the new Programme Outline,"" top government spokesman Koken Nosaka told a news conference on Friday. 

The latest ministry proposal was submitted in Friday's National Security Council meeting chaired by Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama, the highest decision-making organ on defence issues. The council will finalise a new Outline in December. 

Until 1990, Japan's defence ministry had been officially describing the Soviet Union as a ""latent threat"". With its demise, however, the government withdrew that. 

Under the 1976 programme, Japan achieved a substantial military buildup with what was considered the second biggest defence budget in the world -- at more than $50 billion a year. 

That would be several billion dollars more if military pensions, which do not come under defence outlays in Japan, were added according to the formula accepted by NATO members. 

Earlier this month, the London-based International Institute for Strategic Studies (IISS) confirmed what had long been pointed out by many military analysts. 

""With the possible exception of Russia, Japan now spends appreciably more on defence than any other country apart from the United States,"" said the IISS's annual Military Balance. 

In terms of numbers, the 1976 document set out to achieve 180,000 troops in the army, 60 surface vessels in the navy and 350 fighters in the air force to repel a ""limited aggression."" 

Most targets, except for the army's size, have been met. 

Friday's ministry draft said the quota for the army's troops will be reduced to 144,000 from a ceiling of 180,000. But the actual number of troops in the army now stands at about 158,800 because of long-standing recruiting problems. 

The 13 divisions in the army, called the Ground Self-Defence Force, will be reduced to eight, the draft said. New helicopter-mobile brigades will be introduced. 

Of the army's 45,000 reservists, 15,000 will be designated special reservists who can serve at 48 hours notice, the draft said. Tanks will be cut from 1,200 to 940. 

The navy, or Maritime Self-Defence Force, will slash 20 percent of its 60 surface vessels, halve its minesweeper fleet and reduce from 100 to 80 the number of P-3C anti-submarine planes. The 16-boat submarine fleet will not be affected. 

The air force, or Air Self-Defence Force, will cut 10 percent of its frontline strength of 350 fighters but will ask to introduce air-refuelling tankers, the draft said. 

Two of the army divisions to be abolished are in Hokkaido, the northernmost main island facing Russia, the draft said. 

Ministry officials said creation of the helicopter-mobile units was in response to demands for a quick-moving force to meet acts such as the nerve gas attack on Tokyo's subway in March and natural disasters like the massive earthquake that killed more than 5,000 people in Kobe in January. 

 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
333	Japan	2001	93	Corporate	"TOKYO, Dec 18 (Reuters) By reinstating its non-stop passenger flights from Narita to Las Vegas in March, Japan Airlines will add cargo capacity to Los Angeles and San Francisco, where it will stop on the return leg, a JAL cargo executive told Reuters.

""This will give us 80 extra tonnes a week for Los Angeles and 20 extra tonnes per week for San Francisco. This extra capacity is welcome, as both cities have strong demand for IT-related products,"" he added.

TD 

The Boeing 747-400 will depart Narita for Las Vegas five times weekly, stopping four times in Los Angeles and once in San Francisco on the way back to Japan, according to a JAL cargo executive.

There's virtually no demand for air cargo in Las Vegas, though these flights aim to appeal to tourists who may want to travel abroad again in the spring.

November marked the bottom of the international passenger nadir for JAL and most other international airlines.

In October, JAL's international passengers were 35 percent down year on year, and 39 percent down in November. However, reservations for December have increased considerably, to 26 percent below last December.

Bookings for January 2002 are comparable, and bookings for February are even better at 20 percent below February of 2001.

JAL previously had five weekly direct flights between Narita and Las Vegas, which also stopped in Los Angeles and San Francisco on the return leg. These were suspended in October due to the dramatic decrease in international passengers.

Originally they were to be discontinued through January 31st."	1	3	1	2	0	1			1	2.5
347	Korea	1991	1	Political	"	
SEOUL, Dec 10, Reuter - North Korea's prime minister arrived for peace talks in South Korea on Tuesday openly questioning whether there was any point in continuing efforts to end 40 years of Cold War confrontation.

""Many people raise the naive and plain question of whether there is a need for the lip-service talks to continue,"" a grim Yon Hyong-muk said in a statement on his arrival for the fifth round of talks with his southern counterpart.

TD 

The South's Chung Won-shik struck a less pessimistic note in a speech later at a dinner, calling for ""practical measures that can lead to a real national community rather than simple declarations"".

The premiers' talks are the highest level contacts between the Stalinist North and capitalist South since the Korean peninsula was divided at the end of World War Two.

The latest round begins on Wednesday in an isolated resort hotel on the eastern outskirts of the capital.

Yon crossed the border at mid-morning and was driven directly to the luxury Sheraton Walker Hill hotel where he will occupy a 2,400-dollar-a-night suite paid for by the South Korean government.

The hotel houses Seoul's only legal casino and is best known for its Las Vegas-style shows featuring topless dancers. Its isolation would make it difficult for the North Koreans to stray from their southern minders.

Seoul hailed as a breakthrough an agreement reached at the last premiers' meeting in Pyongyang to draft a non-aggression pact. No progress on the pact was made in four working level meetings in November.

Diplomats and government officials gave the premiers little chance of overcoming deep differences over nuclear weapons that threaten to overshadow the pact since the two sides are unable to agree on such basic details as restoring telephone links and cross-border mail.

Seoul believes non-threatening contacts such as reuniting families -- up to 10 million were separated in the 1945 partition of the peninsula and the 1950-53 Korean War -- would help to pave the way to peace.

""What we need the most at this time is mutual trust in every sector, the elimination of any detonator which could trigger another war, and the restoration of a national community,"" Chung said in his address.

The North wants a non-aggression treaty and arms cuts to precede normalisation, government officials said.

The two sides remain far apart, they said.

""Today the Korean people cannot conceal their gloom over the slow progress of the talks which have continued for more than a year,"" Yon said on his arrival.

Seoul officials have said they would use these talks to press home opposition to Pyongyang's suspected development of nuclear weapons.

South Korea and the United States fear Pyongyang is little more than a year away from a nuclear bomb, fears shared by Japan and North Korea's last communist bloc ally, China.

Pyongyang insists its nuclear programme is for peaceful purposes and refuses to open its facilities to international inspection until all U.S. nuclear weapons are withdrawn from the South. Seoul and Washington have refused to recognise North Korea's linkage of the two issues.

In a dinner speech, Yon reiterated North Korea's stance: ""We will sign the the nuclear safeguards agreement as soon as it is confirmed that the U.S. nuclear weapons begin to be withdrawn.""

South Korea is willing to make some concessions in return for a softening in North Korea's anti-inspection stance, government officials said. They declined to elaborate.

Seoul may offer to scale back annual military exercises conducted with the United States while working for concessions on confidence-building cross-border links, diplomats said.

While both sides want to formally end the Korean War by replacing the armistice with a peace treaty, the North insists the treaty be signed by the United States, which signed the armistice, not by South Korea, a condition unacceptable to Seoul.

Seoul officials said there was hope of progress on some issues -- if time was not swallowed up by nuclear wrangles.

The two sides are closer to agreement on family reunions, restoration of rail and sea links and establishment of direct postal and telecommunications. The North remains strongly opposed to shared broadcasting and media access.

Seoul officials reported some common ground on agreements to establish a military hotline, refrain from slandering each other, respect each other's sovereignty and eschew attempts to overthrow the other's government."	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
15	Korea	2000	6	Corporate	"SEOUL, Dec 29 (Reuters) - South Korea's bankrupt Daewoo Motor said on Friday it planned to lay off 6,884 workers, or 32 percent of its workforce, through restructuring. 

The country's third largest automaker, whose court receivership application was approved in November, said in a statement it aimed to save 234 billion won ($186.9 million) a year from job and wage cuts. 
 
TD 
 The company said the job-cut plan would be discussed with the company's 13,000-member union, 60 percent of its total workforce of 21,789 which includes temporary workers. 

""Management and the union have started talks on the job-reduction plan,"" a spokesman said. 

Union officials were not available for comment. 

Those who will be cut comprise 5,494 factory workers and 1,390 white-collar employees, the company spokesman said. 

Since the plan started since November, a total of 2,028 workers had volunteered to quit as of Thursday, he added. 

Daewoo Motor union abandoned its objections to any reform plan calling for job cuts after creditors refused to give fresh loans and the court threatened to liquidate the automaker unless the union accepted a layoff plan. 

Creditors of Daewoo Motor agreed early in December to provide 727.9 billion won in fresh loans by the first half of 2001 to help the sale of the automaker to General Motors and partner Fiat. 

Progress on the sale negotiation has been slow. 

The company has said it was losing 100 billion won a month and reported a loss of 1.42 trillion won on sales of 4.66 trillion in the first nine months of this year. Its interest-bearing debt burden was estimated at $7.45 billion as of June 30.
 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
382	Korea	1992	6	Political	"SEOUL, Aug 29, Reuter - South Korea's Park Yung-kyun retained his World Boxing Association (WBA) featherweight title in the southeastern city if Kyongju on Saturday with a unanimous 12-round points decision over Venezuelan Giovanni Nieves.

The fighters began as they clearly intended to go on, trading flurries of punches from the start of what remained a tireless slugging match, marred by grabbing and clutching towards the end.

TD 

There were no knockdowns but Park's solid counter blows often sent the gusty Venezuelan off balance.

American judges Elias Quintana and Larry Rozadilla scored the fight 116-113 while another American judge, Oscar Perez, had Park ahead 115-113.

Park, 25, won the title in March last year by outpointing Antonio Esparragoza of Venezuela. His professional record is now 23 wins against one defeat and one draw.

(c) Reuters Limited"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
462	Korea	2000	11	Political	"SEOUL, Aug 28 (Reuters) - Six people have been killed and four are missing after heavy monsoon rains triggered landslides and flooding in South Korea.

Two men died in a landslide as they worked to clear debris from an earlier slide in Kunsan, about 180 km (110 miles) south of Seoul, the National Disaster Prevention and Countermeasures Agency (NDPC) said on Monday.

TD 

The agency said a 45-year-old man drowned while doing public repair work at a riverside in Taejon, about 140 km (90 miles) south of the capital and a 47-year-old reservoir gatekeeper in the same province drowned.

The missing include a nine-year-old schoolgirl and a man whose car was swept off a flooded bridge.

Police and army units have been deployed to help people stranded after six days of rain inundated railways, roads and an estimated 260 houses.

""Some 600 mm (two feet) of rain has caused landslides and flooding with the southern provinces of Cholla and Chungchong hardest hit,"" the NDPC said.

It estimated property damage at 34.9 billion won ($31.32 million), with further claims expected to boost that figure.

Farmers reported the heavy rain had killed 177,000 livestock, mostly chickens, and some 28,108 hectares (69,455 acres) of farmland, including rice paddy fields, was reported flooded by Monday afternoon, the Agriculture and Forestry Ministry said.

Military installations along the country's heavily armed border with North Korea had reported no serious damage, a spokeswoman for the Ministry of National Defence said.

The Imjin River, which snakes its way through the Demilitarized Zone separating North and South Korea, had risen well above its danger level of 7.5 metres but the NDPC said by Monday afternoon water levels had subsided to less than six metres.

The National Weather Agency has forecast an easing of the rains across the peninsula, with rainfall of 20 mm to 60 mm forecast on Monday.

($1=1,114.1 won)."	1	4	2	4	1	0			1.5	4
233	Korea	1992	15	Corporate	"SEOUL, Dec 2, Reuter - Domestic vehicle sales and exports by South Korea's five carmakers fell in November due to an economic slowdown at home and abroad, the Korea Automobile Manufacturers' Association (KAMA) said. 

A KAMA official said South Korea sold 44,349 vehicles abroad in November, down from 46,062 in the same period of last year. But the association's figures showed total exports for the first 11 months rose to 390,585 units from 343,564 a year ago. 
 
TD 
 Domestic sales in November totalled 109,546 against 113,830 a year earlier. Total domestic sales for the first 11 months rose to 1.16 million vehicles from 1.01 million. 

The five South Korean car makers are Hyundai Motor Corp, Kia Motor Co Ltd, Daewoo Motor Co Ltd, Ssangyong Motor Co and Asia Motor Co Ltd. 

""November figures were not good, as exports to America have been sluggish and vehicle stockpiles in the European Community were rising,"" the KAMA official said. 

Hyundai, South Korea's largest carmaker, sold a total of 28,176 vehicles abroad in November from 29,306 a year earlier, the KAMA official said. 

Overseas car sales by Kia, the second largest maker, reached 10,023 in November from 10,155 a year ago. 

Exports by Daewoo, including mini-cars produced by Daewoo Shipbuilding and Heavy Machinery Ltd, totalled 5,231 vehicles in November, against 6,392 in the same period of 1991. 

The association predicted a total of 440,000 to 450,000 vehicles would be sold overseas for the whole of this year against 390,362 in 1991. 

Overseas car sales reached a record 576,134 in 1988 but have decreased gradually since exports eased to 347,100 units in 1990 from 356,040 in 1989. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
122	Korea	1999	20	Corporate	"SEOUL, Dec 28 (Reuters) - South Korean stocks opened higher on Tuesday, the last trading day this year, as individual investors were building up stocks in anticipation of a bullish market early next year, brokers said. 


The Korea Composite Stock Price Index    were up 0.81 percent or 8.11 points at 1,013.84 after 11 minutes of trading.

 
TD 
 ""The prospects of an early rally next year are fanning buying by individual investors,"" said Na Dong-ik, a broker at Daishin Securities. 

But brokers said selling pressure from local institutions were mounting as they wanted to take profits above the 1,000 mark. 

Investment trusts firms are likely to sell stocks to raise funds to meet bond redemption requirements, they said. 

Telecom stocks were among the favourites this morning as investors see potential for further growth, brokers said. 

Dacom , a provider of comprehensive telecom services, rose 24,000 to its limit of 625,000, riding on the popularity of telecom stocks. 

Korea Telecom rose 5,500 won to 182,500 in line with an advance of its affiliates in the over-the-counter Kosdaq market. 


KT Freetel , in which Korea Telecom holds a 38.7 percent stake, gained 18,000 won to 295,000, and Hitel      , in which Korea Telecom has a 65.9 percent stake, rose 4,200 won to its daily limit high of 39,300 in the OTC market.

((Kim Myong-hwan, +822 727 5645, fax 822 727 5666, seoul.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
96	Korea	1996	40	Corporate	"SEOUL, Dec 18 (Reuter) - South Korea's finance ministry on Wednesday urged supervisors of government-run pension funds to buy about 300 billion won worth of shares by the end of the year to help boost the sagging stock market, a finance ministry official said. 

""The ministry urged the supervisors to buy more shares during a meeting to review pension fund guidelines,"" said Yoo Jae-hoon, an official at the ministry's securities guideline department. 
 
TD 
 Yoo said the pension fund officers reacted favourably to the suggestion. He did not elaborate. 

 
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
304	Korea	1991	42	Political	"SEOUL, Aug 20, Reuter - South Korea will cooperate with its allies in its response to the fall of Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, a spokesman for President Roh Tae-woo said on Tuesday.

""The government will closely cooperate with its allies, including the United States, concerning the situation,"" spokesman Lee Soo-jung said. He described events in the Soviet Union as ""flexible and complicated"".

TD 

""It may have a significant impact on the Korean peninsula,"" Lee said. ""This is not the time for the government to decide and reveal concrete measures to cope with the Soviet situation.""

Lee was speaking after a meeting of Roh and his cabinet.

South Korea has reacted cautiously to the overthrow of Gorbachev, who visited once fervently anti-communist South Korea in April.

Officials declined to say if Seoul would proceed with a promised three billion dollar aid package to Moscow.

Some diplomats voiced fears Gorbachev's downfall at the hands of hardliners would encourage North Korea to take a less cooperative stance toward Seoul.

""It's a bit early to tell, but we might see a hardening of North Korea's stance,"" one diplomat said.

Last September, South Korea established full diplomatic relations with the Soviet Union, once North Korea's principal armourer and backer. Pyongyang bitterly denounced Gorbachev for recognising Seoul.

Soviet recognition of Seoul also led to South Korea's successful application to join the United Nations, forcing North Korea to abandon its long-held position that both Koreas should share a single seat in the world body.

The two Koreas officially enter the U.N. next month.

Seoul has already sent 500 million dollars in cash loans to Moscow and was due to extend 800 billion dollars in credits to allow the purchase of South Korean consumer goods.

Trade had been expected to jump 71 per cent to 1.52 billion dollars in 1991 from 889 million dollars last year."	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
363	Korea	1995	42	Corporate	"SEOUL, Dec 19 (Reuter) - Hyundai Heavy Industries Ltd, a unit of South Korea's Hyundai Group, has won two shipbuilding orders worth a combined $1.1 billion from German firms to build 18 container vessels, a Hyundai spokesman said.

The company spokesman said Hyundai plans to build 15 units of 4,500 TEU (twenty-foot equivalent unit) container vessels for DSR Senator and three of 2,800 TEU vessels for Hansa Mare.

TD 

Delivery is scheduled to be made between the second half of 1997 and the first half of 1998, the spokesman said.

-- Seoul newsroom (822) 727 5646

(c) Reuters Limited 1995"	1	2	1	2	0	2			1	2
113	Korea	2003	44	Political	"SEOUL, Aug 26 (Reuters) - South Korea said on Tuesday its navy fired warning shots after a North Korean patrol boat crossed a disputed border off the west coast of the divided peninsula, just a day before Beijing talks on the North's nuclear programme. 

It was not immediately clear whether the incursion was accidental or deliberate, but the communist North has in the past raised the stakes before talks or created a pretext to delay or walk out. 
 
TD 
 The North Korean delegation to the nuclear talks arrived in Beijing around the time news broke of the border incursion. 

""The patrol boat returned shortly after the South Korean navy fired shots at 7:04 this morning (2204 GMT), and some 400 Chinese fishing boats were near the flashpoint in the West Sea (Yellow Sea),"" said the South's Joint Chiefs of Staff in a statement. 

A spokesman for the Joint Chiefs said by telephone a South Korean patrol boat fired two warning shots. 

North Korea is set to attend three days of talks in Beijing starting on Wednesday to discuss its nuclear weapons plans with the United States, China, Russia, South Korea and Japan. 

The North's navy vessel returned across the border three minutes after it crossed the boundary. There were no reports of casualties. 

It was the first time this year the South Korean navy has fired warning shots to repel a navy vessel. 

But it was the 16th time this year a vessel from the North had crossed the so-called Northern Limit Line boundary, the de-facto border that the North has declared invalid. Most involve North Korean boats working rich crab fishing grounds. 

There were deadly naval clashes there in 1999 and last year. Tensions have been high on the Korean peninsula since last October when the United States said the North had said it was pursuing a secret nuclear arms programme. 

Before a cabinet meeting in Seoul, South Korean ministers spoke to reporters about the nuclear talks. Kim Jae-sup, a vice foreign minister, said the United States, Japan and South Korea had finished coordinating their positions. 

Defence Minister Cho Young-kil said he was aiming to have the South's defence budget increased to three percent of gross domestic product next year - an extra 2.0 trillion won ($1.7 billion) - from 2.7 percent of GDP this year. The South wants to be less reliant on U.S. forces. (US$1=1175.5 won) (Additional reporting by Kim Miyoung and Frances Yoon). 
 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
223	Korea	1992	50	Political	"SEOUL, Aug 21, Reuter - North and South Korea moved a step further towards thawing decades of hostility on Friday, agreeing on a framework for cross-border visits and mail between war-torn families, a southern statement said. 

The South-North Dialogue Office said the two sides also reached an agreement which could eventually allow media, sports, arts and other cultural exchanges. 
 
TD 
 ""There is still a long way to go,"" an official at the office said after the 2-1/2-hour talks at the border village of Panmunjom. 

""A lot of detailed matters...remain to be discussed and agreed between the two sides."" 

The negotiators to the Joint Exchanges and Cooperation Committee will reconvene on September 3. 

The committee considers measures to realise direct personal and trade exchanges between the two Koreas, still technically at war since the 1950-53 Korean conflict. 

The prime ministers of the Koreas signed a non-aggression and reconciliation pact last December and began regular talks to put the accord into practice. 

But progress limped to a halt when a bitter dispute erupted over Seoul's demand to inspect nuclear facilities in North Korea. 

The first victim of the nuclear impasse was a reunion programme for families divided by the war, which was due to start later this month. 

The two prime ministers agreed in May to allow cross-border visits by a handful of elderly Koreans separated from their families by the 1945 division of the Korean peninsula. 

The exchange visits have been held to ransom by the nuclear impasse, and talks on the reunion programme collapsed earlier this month. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
136	Korea	2008	51	Political	"WASHINGTON, July 30 (Reuters) - The United States on Wednesday tried to ease its way out of a dispute between South Korea and Japan over a cluster of islands both countries claim, which had threatened to mar U.S. President George W. Bush's visit to Seoul next week.

A small government agency, the U.S. Board on Geographic Names, had changed its designation of the islands from South Korea to no longer belonging to any country, sparking outrage in Seoul at a perceived shift in U.S. policy.
 
TD 
 The White House said that decision would be reversed after complaints by South Korea. Bush will visit Seoul Aug. 5-6 amid lingering tensions from another dispute, the lifting of a five-year ban on U.S. beef imports into the country.

""We regret that this change in designation was perceived by South Koreans as some sort of change in our policy,"" Dennis Wilder, senior director for Asian affairs at the White House National Security Council, told reporters.

The islands are called Dokdo in Korean and Takeshima in Japanese.

After the United States was contacted by high-level South Korean government officials, Bush ordered U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to look into the matter, Wilder said.

""It was decided after that review that the change in designation was not warranted at this time, and so that database is now being restored to where it was prior to this change in designation,"" he said.

Wilder noted that U.S. policy remained that Washington was neutral and that Japan and South Korea needed to resolve the dispute diplomatically.

The question of sovereignty, long a sore point in relations, erupted again this month after schools in Japan were advised to refer to them as Japanese territory. It sparked angry protests outside the Japanese Embassy in Seoul and the South Korean government made an official protest.

Japan and South Korea both claim historical rights to the cluster of rocks, which have little obvious economic value but are in the midst of fishing grounds and may sit above valuable deposits of natural gas hydrate. (Editing by Eric Beech)
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
433	Korea	2007	55	Political	"SEOUL, Aug 16 (Reuters) - South Korea's unemployment rate in July rose to 3.4 percent from a month earlier, data showed on Thursday, casting some doubt on expectations that domestic demand will pick up later this year.

The seasonally adjusted reading follows a rate of 3.3 percent in June, which had eased from a six-month high of 3.4 percent in May, National Statistical Office data showed.

TD 

The number of employed rose to a seasonally adjusted 23.46 million in July from 23.44 million in June, the data showed.

South Korea's monthly unemployment rate has kept to a range of 3.2 percent to 3.5 percent for the past year.

Increased spending by the government and consumers is expected to start generating more employment in coming months.

The Bank of Korea surprised markets last week by raising benchmark interest rates by a quarter-percentage point to 5.0 percent for the second consecutive month, aiming to halt accelerating growth in money supply that could fuel inflation."	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
53	Korea	2000	66	Political	"SEOUL, Aug 2 (Reuters) - Seoul and Beijing have reached an agreement to regulate fishing in the waters between the two countries, South Korea's Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Fisheries said on Wednesday. 

Kwon Byong-hyon, South Korean ambassador to China, and Chinese Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan will sign the agreement on Thursday, the ministry said in a statement. 
 
TD 
 Seoul and Beijing initialled a bilateral fisheries agreement in November 1998 following almost five years of talks. 

But official signing of the agreement was delayed for 18 months, after China banned South Koreans from fishing in Yangtze River. 

""The new agreement will allow South Koreans to fish in some parts of Chinese Yangtze River for two years, after it goes into effect,"" an official at the Ministry said. 

He did not say why the Chinese were allowing fishing by South Koreans in the Yangtze. 

The South Korean government needs the National Assembly's approval for the bilateral agreement, he said. 

The agreement is expected to take effect starting next year, after the two countries finish subsequent negotiations on fishing in the Exclusive Economic Zones (EEZ). ((Song Jung-a, tel +822-727-5650, fax +822-727-5666, seoul.newsroom@reuters.com)
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
389	Korea	1993	72	Political	"SEOUL, May 28, Reuter - South Korean Byun Jung-il outboxed Mexican Josefino Suarez in their World Boxing Council (WBC) bantamweight title fight on Friday to win an unanimous points decision.

Byun floored the challenger midway through the first round with a left but failed to press home his advantage although he often pinned Suarez against the ropes.

TD 

The 26-year-old Korean remains undefeated after 10 bouts, including four by knockout.

It was his first defence of the WBC title he took from Mexico's Victor Rabanales in March.

(c) Reuters Limited"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
216	Korea	2003	89	Political	"SEOUL, Aug 11 (Reuters) - Human rights activists in South Korea unveiled a campaign on Monday to send radios into North Korea using balloons, in a bid to open up the secretive communist country. 

They plan to fly more than 20 balloons, each six metres tall and carrying about 30 small radios, into North Korea within the next two weeks from either China or South Korea, organisers told a news conference in Seoul, without elaborating. 
 
TD 
 The ""Give the Ear to a North Korean"" campaign was announced amid a flurry of diplomacy as the two Koreas, the United States, China, Japan and Russia prepare to meet in Beijing late this month in an attempt to defuse the North Korean nuclear crisis. 

""It's a small project but we are publicising this to call for more people to join,"" said Rev Douglas Shin, a Korean-American human rights activist. 

Organisers estimate the cost of sending the radios at $7,000. 

North Korea strictly bans its people from listening to or watching outside broadcasts, but several agencies, including Voice of America and South Korea's KBS - both government-run broadcasters - air programmes aimed at North Koreans. 

Shin said the U.S. state department also planned to send an unspecified amount of radios to North Korea and a bill authorising the plan had been approved by the House and was now awaiting the Senate's approval. 

South and North Korea remain technically at war because the 1950-53 Korean War ended without a peace treaty. 

The South also bans its citizens from receiving North Korean broadcasts, but has opened up access to all other channels. 
 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
386	Korea	2006	93	Corporate	"SEOUL, Nov 1 (Reuters) - House prices across South Korea rose by their fastest pace in nearly three and a half years in October from September, data from the country's top lender showed on Wednesday, a week before the central bank reviews interest rates.

House prices rose 1.3 percent in October, the fastest monthly gain since a 1.6 percent rise in May 2003 and more than double the 0.5 percent rise in September from August, data from Kookmin Bank showed.

TD 

South Korea's central bank has said its interest rate increases since October 2005 were not mainly aimed at cooling housing prices, but minutes from its policy meetings showed housing prices were among the main factors.

The housing price growth in October this year was also in stark contrast with a 0.5 percent drop in the month's consumer price index from September.

The Bank of Korea said soon after raising interest rates in early August that it was time to reconsider its previously tightening monetary policy stance in view of slowing growth in Asia's third-largest economy and still stable inflation.

It held the rate target steady at 4.50 percent at its policy meetings in September and October, and plans to review interest rates on Nov. 9."	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
14	Netherlands	2000	3	Corporate	"AMSTERDAM, Dec 29 (Reuters) - Dutch semiconductor equipment maker ASM Lithography NV said on Friday it would issue 53.9 million new shares as part of its purchase of U.S. Silicon Valley Group (SGV) which was announced in October. 

In a newspaper advertisement, ASML said further details of the issue would follow after the acquisition was closed. 
 
TD 
 ""This is a consequence of the stock swap with SGV. We give 1.286 of our shares for each SGV share. Since we do not hold these shares ourselves, we have to issue them,"" Chief Financial Officer Peter Wennink told Reuters. 

Wennink added the issue would amount to somewhat more than 10 percent of ASML's current number of outstanding shares and would not cause dilution of the group's earnings per share. 

""The transaction will be immediately accretive to our earnings, as we stated already in October when we first announced the SGV deal,"" he said. 

In October, ASML said it would buy rival chip equipment maker Silicon Valley Group for 1.8 billion euros ($1.68 billion) in stock to create the world's biggest maker of machines that print circuits on computer chips. The deal was approved by the U.S. anti-trust authorities in November. 

CFO Wennink said on Friday that an SVG shareholders meeting, planned for end January, would be the final step before closing the deal. 

ASML is the world's second largest maker of scanners and steppers, machines which map out semiconductor circuitry on silicon wafers. Philips Electronics holds a minority stake in ASML. 
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
285	Netherlands	1995	3	Political	"AMSTERDAM, Dec 27 (Reuter) - Dutch antipathy towards their German neighbours is notorious, but a recent poll has shown that they like the French even less.

Bitter memories of World War Two occupation and intense rivalry on the soccer field had apparantly secured Germany's status as least favoured nation here.

TD 

But a Christmas poll for De Volkskrant newspaper revealed the French were seen as the most arrogant and least democratic of the Netherlands' nearest European neighbours.

The poll surveyed Dutch attitudes towards the people of Belgium, Britain, France and Germany.

The Belgians were the most popular, closely followed by the British with the French narrowly edging the Germans out as the least loved.

French president Jacques Chirac polled the poorest approval rating, scraping a dismal two percent which was crushed beneath the avalanche of support for Germany's Helmut Kohl.

The chancellor's 38 percent made him by far the most popular, Britain's John Major gathering 18 percent for second place.

The paper blamed widespread Dutch disapproval of nuclear tests in the South Pacific as an important factor behind France's negative image.

Implied criticism of Dutch U.N. peacekeepers by French officials after the fall of the Bosnian safe haven of Srebrenica in July also wounded Dutch national pride.

Comments by the former French ambassador that he could not wait to get out of the country and fled every Friday to spend the weekend on home soil also failed to amuse many of his hosts.

(c) Reuters Limited 1995"	1	3	1	2	0	1			1	2.5
482	Netherlands	2005	5	Corporate	"AMSTERDAM, Dec 23 (Reuters) - Dutch utility Nuon has agreed to sell its 60-Megawatt Berkel power station in the east of the Netherlands to Morgan Stanley for an undisclosed sum, the firm said on Friday.

Nuon said the relatively small power station no longer fitted its current production portfolio, adding it expected the transaction to be completed next week.

TD 

Morgan Stanley said participation in physical energy markets was a defining characteristic of its commodities trading.

""Buying Berkel Power Plant is part of a long-standing and focused strategy to stay close to the physical markets by owning assets in the markets in which Morgan Stanley Commodities trades,"" it said in a statement.

Morgan Stanley has moved aggressively to increase its power and natural gas trading in the United States since the collapse of Enron Corp. in 2001 drastically reduced liquidity in those markets.

Along with other Wall Street players Goldman Sachs , UBS and Bear Stearns , the financial giant dove into the energy derivatives and physical trading markets, providing the needed liquidity."	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
124	Netherlands	1997	12	Corporate	"AMSTERDAM, Dec 22 (Reuters) - Steel producer Ispat International said on Monday that it would buy back up to 2.5 million of its Class A common shares in the open market. 

Ispat gave no reason for the possible buy-back of its shares. 
 
TD 
 The group's shares were floated on the Amsterdam and New York stock exchanges last August when a total of 28.75 million Class A common shares were sold, raising $776.25 million. 

In November, the company said its third-quarter net profits, excluding non-cash items, had increased by more than 59 percent on 10 percent higher sales. No further figures were disclosed. 

Ispat is officially headquartered in the Netherlands but has production facilities in Mexico, Trinidad, Canada, Germany and Ireland. 

((Amsterdam newsroom +31 20 504 5000, Fax +31 20 504 5040, amsterdam.newsroom@reuters.com)) 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
306	Netherlands	1992	19	Political	"AMSTERDAM, Dec 16, Reuter - Dutch Prime Minister Ruud Lubbers's choice of a low-profile, unambitious foreign minister to replace Atlanticist Hans van den Broek may be a step towards a broader post-Cold War foreign policy.

Law professor Pieter Kooijmans, 59, was named on Tuesday just a year before he was due to retire from Leiden University.

TD 

He will take over on January 2 from Van den Broek who becomes Dutch European Commissioner, and will serve until the next parliamentary elections in May 1994.

The Dutch media saw Lubbers's choice of an unambitious interim minister as a characteristically shrewd move. They referred to repeated conflicts between Lubbers and Van den Broek, who resented Lubbers's intervention in foreign policy.

Kooijmans has rejected the suggestion he will become Lubbers's puppet, but politicians in The Hague agree he is essentially holding the fort for a more heavyweight political candidate once the 1994 elections are over.

The new minister reacted to his appointment in a manner which would amount to political suicide for career politicians: by saying he wanted to spend more time with his family.

""I am available for one and a half years. I have no ambitions for a longer period -- I had no ambitions for this post,"" Kooijmans told Dutch television on Tuesday night.

Kooijmans's experience of political office is limited to a four-year spell as deputy foreign minister in a Labour-led coalition government in the 1970s. Most recently, he has been active within the United Nations as a human rights expert.

His temporary posting and distance from the Atlanticist axis of Van den Broek's foreign policy will create a breathing space in which the Netherlands can broaden its allegiances, political analysts said.

""He's less attached to the scheme of Atlantic cooperation and he doesn't have Van den Broek's alien approach to eastern European countries,"" said Joop van den Berg, a Leiden colleague and Professor of Dutch politics and parliamentary history.

Van den Broek, who served as minister for 10 years, was criticised for reaffirming in 1991 that Dutch foreign policy need not shift from its historic dual pillars of cooperation with the United States and tighter European cooperation.

Some commentators said he was becoming too entrenched and ignoring global fragmentation after the collapse of Communism.

""Maybe the orientation of Dutch politics should be broader than Van den Broek's emphasis on Atlanticism and the European Community,"" said Van den Berg. ""Someone like (Kooijmans) could help make it easier for parliament to shift its approach.""

Like Van den Broek and Lubbers, Kooijmans is a centrist Christian Democrat but his human rights involvement has prompted some commentators to locate him to the left of his predecessor.

""I don't see what human rights has got to do with left or right,"" he responded.

Nonetheless, his U.N. contacts and knowledge of its workings will add a useful insight in policy formulation as the U.N. is becoming increasingly involved in global disputes.

Kooijmans himself has declined to elaborate on his policy aims but commentators say Dutch overseas aid policy, with its emphasis on human rights, is unlikely to change much under his charge.

He said last year that torture was an everyday occurrence in parts of Indonesia, helping to fuel a dispute between the Dutch and their former colony which culminated in Indonesia's rejection of Dutch development aid.

(c) Reuters Limited"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
355	Netherlands	2008	31	Political	"AMSTERDAM, Oct 27 (Reuters) - A former spokeswoman at the war crimes tribunal for the former Yugoslavia refused to enter a plea on Monday to two counts of contempt for disclosing confidential info rmation after leaving the court.

In a book published a year ago, Florence Hartmann wrote that Russia had blocked the arrest of former Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic in 1997, and described details of discussions between the leaders of the United States, Britain and France. ""I do not wish to enter a plea,"" Hartmann responded to the charges, which together carry a maximum imprisonment of 14 years or fines of up to 200,000 euros ($250,000).

TD 

Hartmann's court-appointed lawyer, William Bourdon, argued that he and his client wanted to wait until the tribunal in The Hague decided whether she would be able to pay for legal counsel since that would affect their strategy.

The judge disagreed and said a new status conference would be set within 30 days for a second opportunity to enter a plea.

A court order, issued in lieu of an indictment since the court was not seeking Hartmann's arrest or detention, said Hartmann had ""knowingly and wilfully"" disclosed confidential information.

Hartmann's book ""Peace and Punishment"", published in September 2007, details discussions between the leaders of the United States, Britain and France in 1997 when French President Jacques Chirac was persuaded to abandon his demands for the arrest of Karadzic.

After more than a decade on the run, Karadzic was arrested in July and brought to The Hague, where he is currently awaiting the start of his trial.

Hartmann's book said Chirac was seeking redress for the capture of two French pilots shot down and held hostage by Bosnian Serb forces in 1995, but that later France made a secret no-arrest deal with Karadzic and his wartime commander Ratko Mladic, to obtain the release of the aviators. (Reporting by Reed Stevenson)"	5	3	5	2	0	1		1	5	2.5
413	Netherlands	1992	33	Corporate	"AMSTERDAM, Dec 10, Reuter - Computer group Hewlett-Packard said it is holding a news conference here at 1300 GMT to detail a joint venture with Swedish telephone group L M Ericsson of Sweden.

A spokesman for the U.S. group's Dutch unit, Hewlett-Packard Nederland BV, declined to give any details about the size or nature of the venture.

TD 

Hewlett-Packard said on Wednesday from its Californian headquarters that it would announce an important alliance in network management systems, but did not identify the partner.

(c) Reuters Limited"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
44	Netherlands	2000	37	Corporate	"AMSTERDAM, Dec 21 (Reuters) - Philips Electronics NV said on Thursday it has hired DDB Worldwide as its new advertising agency and would end its contract with Euro RSCG Worldwide in June 2001. 

In addition, Philips, Europe's largest maker of consumer products and lighting and number two in semiconductors, also said it would expand the scope of its business with D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles. 
 
TD 
 ""After a long and successful collaborative partnership with Euro RSCG Worldwide, which inluded the award-winning ""Getting Better"" campaign, Philips has decided to offer other agencies the chance to take a fresh look at the brand,"" it said in a statement. 

The main driver for this change is Philips' ambition to build its global premium brand position faster and more consistently, it added. 

DDB Worldwide will handle the traditional advertising for the Philip's Consumer Electronics, semiconductors, components and Philips Group. 

D'Arcy, which currently handles the domestic appliances and personal care advertising, will add Philips' lighting and medical systems to its portfolio. 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
205	Netherlands	1994	44	Corporate	"AMSTERDAM, Dec 14 (Reuter) - Music and entertainment group PolyGram NV said Wednesday it bought Los Angeles-based film maker Island Pictures and extended its contract with Island's founder, Chris Blackwell, until 2000. 

No financial details were given. 
 
TD 
 In 1989 Polygram, majority-owned by Dutch group Philips Electronics NV, bought Island Records, a music label set up by Blackwell in 1959. It had success with reggae singer Bob Marley and helped discover artists such as Steve Winwood, Grace Jones, Marianne Faithful and the Cranberries. 

Island Pictures has a catalogue of more than 120 films, including hits such as ""Kiss of the Spider Woman,"" for which William Hurt won a Best Actor Oscar, ""She's Gotta Have It"" and ""Mona Lisa."" 

PolyGram said the music and film companies would make up the Island Entertainment Group, an independent entity within PolyGram. 

Island Pictures, which has a staff of 20, currently has a number of films in the post-production stage, including a film about the life of South African President Nelson Mandela. 

 
"	2	4	2	4	0	0			2	4
7	Netherlands	1991	45	Political	"AMSTERDAM, Dec 5, Reuter - Barcelona coach Johan Cruyff has been asked to take over the Dutch national team next year and mastermind their 1994 World Cup campaign, a Dutch soccer association official said on Thursday. 

The official, Paul Boels, told Dutch television that Cruyff had responded positively to an offer to succeed Rinus Michels who plans to step down as coach after the 1992 European championship finals in Sweden. 
 
TD 
 ""But we will have to bear in mind that Cruyff's contract with Barcelona runs until mid 1993,"" Boels said. 

During a dazzling playing career with Ajax Amsterdam and Barcelona, Cruyff was voted European Footballer of the Year three times. He was the cornerstone of the Dutch team which reached the 1974 and 1978 World Cup finals. 

As a coach Cruyff has led both Barcelona and Ajax to victory in the European Cup Winners' Cup. 
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
162	Netherlands	1996	52	Political	"AMSTERDAM, Dec 4 (Reuter) - Problems mount for Dutch soccer giants Ajax Amsterdam. 

Struggling in the Dutch league and facing a do-or-die European Champions league duel with Grasshopper Zurich tonight, the club was told on Wednesday that it could no longer call its new 21st century stadium the Amsterdam Arena. 
 
TD 
 The Dutch champions' new high-tech home was opened with great fanfare in August, but an Amsterdam court was told on Wednesday that a youth hostel and sweaty nightclub complex had bagged the Arena title some four years ago. 

In a civil lawsuit, the Village Company argued that it had run the Arena Sleep-In -- a budget 600-bed hotel, cafe and music hall complex -- since 1992. 

In its suit, the Village Company complained that since the Arena's grand summer opening, it had received deliveries and bills for the new stadium. 

While soccer experts have criticised the Arena's patchy playing surface and Ajax has had to refund some season ticket holders who were given seats with a poor view, the ""other"" Arena has been inundated with demands for tickets for top events at the new stadium. 

While the Amsterdam Arena has hosted Michael Jackson and Tina Turner, the smaller Arena's events calendar boasts the El Wierdo Jazz Quartet and Dr Doom. 

An Amsterdam Arena spokesman said the entertainment complex's owners had no plans yet to rename the stadium, despite the threat of a 5,000 guilders per day fine which comes into force in February. 

""(The judgement) was a surprise. We could appeal or have a conversation with the other Arena. We're not considering (re-naming) just at the moment,"" he said. 

""Changing name would be an enormously costly process."" 

 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
478	Netherlands	2005	54	Corporate	"AMSTERDAM, Dec 6 (Reuters) - Prices of mobile phones will drop sharply over coming years with $20 handsets available to consumers as early as 2007, chip companies said on Tuesday.

Mobile phones may even be produced as cheaply as $10, but the major phone vendors seem reluctant to do so because they will have to use cheap parts and the lower quality may hurt their brand image, said Horst Pratsch, vice president for Entry Platforms at German chip maker Infineon. ""Low quality is not an option, but accepting fewer features is,"" he said in a telephone interview on the fringes of an ultra low-cost handset conference in Brussels.

TD 

Low-cost handsets have been a major driver of the cell phone market in 2005, with vendors such as Motorola selling models for less than $50 to consumers in emerging markets who could previously not afford to buy a phone.

Infineon, and rivals such as Philips from the Netherlands, are striving to integrate the key functions of a mobile phone into a single chip of around $5.

This will help phone producers assemble a complete phone with far fewer components than the 150 used now, Pratsch said. ""In 2007, we can do 50 components,"" he said, unveiling the next step of Infineon's roadmap to cheaper phones.

The company said in July that by early 2006 it would start selling a low-cost phone platform with less than 100 components for handsets that cost less than $20 to produce, versus $35 now.

PRICES AROUND $15 IN 2007

With the component count halving in the next year, the production price will come down sharply.

""In 2007 we are, for sure, significantly below $20,"" Pratsch said.

With production prices at that level, the wholesale price of a handset, which includes distribution and other costs, will be at or below $20, he estimates. Most consumers get their phones directly from their wireless operator, and the retail price is based on the wholesale cost to mobile carriers.

Philips estimates it will be 2008 when it can supply phone vendors with a design which enables handset production below $15.

Chip makers have become more important than ever to phone vendors, as they now supply them with complete reference designs as well as core software for basic phone models.

Semiconductor makers squeeze costs out of their designs by integrating all key functions on a single chip, but also by reorganising the remaining components more cleverly on a smaller surface which also speeds up test procedures.

Analysts estimate some 810 million mobile phones will be sold to consumers this year, up from around 680 million last year. Close to 2 billion people now carry one.

Even cheaper handsets will open up new markets.

""There are around 3.5 billion people living in areas with mobile phone coverage who cannot afford their own handset,"" said Ameet Shah, strategy chief for emerging markets handsets at the GSM Association which represents the world's mobile carriers.

Phone vendors can drive down costs by using weaker batteries, lower-grade plastics and stripped-down software, similar to cordless phones for the home. But the big vendors are hesitant to do so, because they fear that unhappy customers will switch brands when replace their first phone, Pratsch said."	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
310	Netherlands	2005	55	Political	"AMSTERDAM, Nov 25 (Reuters) - Following are some of the main stories in Dutch newspapers today. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy. ** For summary of the FINANCIAL TIMES, click on [PRESS/FT] ** For summary of the WALL STREET JOURNAL, click on [PRESS/WSJ]

FINANCIEELE DAGBLAD

TD 

- VNU top man taking on more responsibilities outside the company.

- Sugar accord to help EU countries in WTO negotiations.

- Markets watchdog AFM to offer workshops to financial professionals on new laws and regulations.

- Big increase in job vacancies.

- Postal and logistics company TNT gambles on China market.

VOLKSKRANT

- Foreign Minister Bernard Bot threatens not to involve Dutch troops in international military operations if United States does not protect human rights of prisoners.

- A man who spat at Immigration Minister Rita Verdonk is sentenced to 60 hours community service.

- Dutch Agriculture Cees Veerman says reform of European Union subsidies of sugar industry is a bitter pill for Dutch sugar beet producers.

DE TELEGRAAF

- Majority of parliamentarians of opposition PvdA Labour want Wouter Bos to lead party list and be future prime minister.

- Numico's Italian subsidiary Milupa also affected by concern over traces of ink in baby products from their Tetra Pak cartons just like Nestle , but spokesman said Italian authorities have not asked for recall.

ALGEMEEN DAGBLAD

- Somali-born member of parliament Ayaan Hirsi Ali spars with Hans Wiegel, former leader of VVD liberal party of which she is a member.

- Business picking up in Dutch hotel and food sector."	1	3	2	3	1	0			1.5	3
270	Netherlands	1993	56	Political	"AMSTERDAM, Nov 29 (Reuter) - Dutch development aid minister Jan Pronk will visit Bosnia on December 5-9 to see how the onset of winter is affecting relief efforts, the ministry said on Monday.

Pronk will travel via Zagreb to Sarajevo and then to Tuzla or Mostar if possible, the ministry said in a statement.

TD 

Last week the Netherlands said it would donate an extra $16 million to help victims of the war in former Yugoslavia, bringing the total amount donated from the Dutch development cooperation budget this year to more than $68 million.

(c) Reuters Limited 1993AMSTERDAM, Nov 29 (Reuter) - Dutch development aid minister Jan Pronk will visit Bosnia on December 5-9 to see how the onset of winter is affecting relief efforts, the ministry said on Monday.

Pronk will travel via Zagreb to Sarajevo and then to Tuzla or Mostar if possible, the ministry said in a statement.

TD 

Last week the Netherlands said it would donate an extra $16 million to help victims of the war in former Yugoslavia, bringing the total amount donated from the Dutch development cooperation budget this year to more than $68 million.

(c) Reuters Limited 1993"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
488	Netherlands	1994	60	Political	"AMSTERDAM, Nov 18 (Reuter) - Amsterdam police said on Friday they had arrested a policeman and a former policeman on charges of counterfeiting.

Both men were stationed in the Amsterdam red light district. One of them was fired in January when he was found guilty of theft and handling stolen goods.

TD 

(c) Reuters Limited 1994"	1	4	1	5	0	1			1	4.5
181	Netherlands	1997	61	Political	"AMSTERDAM, Dec 10 (Reuters) - Netherland's central bank and its capital's archive promised on Wednesday to investigate claims that they had bought goods stolen from Dutch Jews by the Nazis. 

Weekly magazine Vrij Nederland said recently rediscovered records showed the Dutch central bank and city archive had purchased stolen Jewish property. 
 
TD 
 Both organisations said they were unable to confirm the purchases. 

Vrij Nederland backed up its claim with photographs of records kept during World War Two by the Amsterdam-based Lippmann-Rosenthal bank. 

The Jewish-owned bank was taken over by the occupying Nazis who used it to collect and sell off valuables taken from Jewish families before they were deported to concentration camps. 

Entries in the records show that the central bank bought 32 coins while the city archive bought etchings and drawings of city scenes. 

Hans Blom, head of the Dutch government's war archives, said such purchases were illegal but noted that during the occupation the Nazis often appointed Dutch fascists to head leading organisations. 

Vrij Nederland said the Lippmann-Rosenthal records, rediscovered by chance in a canal-side house in Amsterdam, showed Dutch individuals had also purchased Jewish goods. 

It said gold and silver goods were mostly shipped to German metals firm Degussa in Frankfurt. 

The rediscovery of the Lippmann-Rosenthal records has led to mounting discomfort about possible Dutch complicity in the misappropriation of Jewish property. 

On Tuesday Finance Minister Gerrit Zalm promised a full investigation into a report by another magazine, de Groene Amsterdammer, that in 1968 government employees were allowed to buy jewellery stolen from Dutch Jews at bargain prices. 

Zalm said the report appeared to be true and described the sale as ""scandalous"". 

Before the Nazi occupation the Netherlands had a Jewish population of some 140,000 people -- over 100,000 perished during the war. 

 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
134	Netherlands	1998	62	Political	"AMSTERDAM, Nov 21 (Reuters) - Danny Blind scored in the eighth minute to give champions Ajax Amsterdam a 1-0 win over bottom side RKC Waalwijk in the Dutch first division on Sunday that puts them second behind Feyenoord. 

Ajax have 31 points from 15 matches, one point behind Feyenoord, but the Rotterdam side have two matches in hand. 
 
TD 
 Feyenoord had little trouble on Saturday beating lowly Cambuur Leeuwarden 4-0. PSV Eindhoven, fielding a new team formation, beat 10-man Utrecht 5-0 on Sunday and Heerenveen are third after drawing 1-1 with Graafschap Doetinchem. 

Blind, 37 and in his last season, beat the offside trap to score but Ajax, missing several key players due to injury and illness, failed to extend their advantage despite dominating. 

Brazilian winger Wamberto had the best chance of the match but he managed to put the ball over the bar from five meters with the goal unguarded. 

PSV boss Bobby Robson fielded two strikers and a strengthened midfield, instead of four strikers, and the goals flowed against Utrecht. 

Utrecht played the second half with 10 man as former Feyenoord defender Bernard Schuiteman was sent off in his debut for Utrecht just before the interval, when he brought down Ruud van Nistelrooij inside the box. 

Van Nistelrooij took the penalty to score PSV's second after defender Abel Xavier had opened the scoring in the 22nd minute with a header from a Luc Nilis free kick. 

Van Nistelrooij hit his second of the day and his 13th of the season six minutes into the second half, just two minutes after Robert Fuchs scored PSV's third. 

It took until the last minute for Gilles de Bilde to make it 5-0, a convincing dress rehearsal for their European Champions' League match against HJK Helsinki. 

 
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
408	Netherlands	2001	71	Corporate	"AMSTERDAM, Dec 14 (Reuters) - The Dutch cabinet on Friday accepted a proposed law that could pave the way for regulators to force cable companies to open up their networks for rival Internet service providers to gain access to consumers.

""The cabinet agreed with the proposal of our minister. The proposal says the competition authorities should analyse the Internet market and if they find that any company has substantial market power, they can then implement measures to create competition,"" a spokesman from the Ministry of Transportation and Infrastructure told Reuters.

TD 

A number of Dutch cable companies have agreed to accept ISP competition on their networks. But the Netherland's largest cable company, United Pan-Europe Communications (UPC), which owns the ISP Chello, has previously rejected any voluntary opening of the networks.

The proposed law will go to Parliament next year, which is likely to approve the measure, sources told Reuters prior to the cabinet announcement.

""The proposal will go back to Parliament, but since the Parliament has asked for competition, it is likely to be approved,"" the source said.

The Dutch Parliament asked the cabinet to implement this measure more than a year ago, but ministers wanted to wait for the European Union to revise its regulatory framework for telecoms, which it did on Wednesday.

Separately, the Dutch competition authority NMa and telecoms watchdog OPTA, both of which will lay out rules for opening the cable networks, issued a report on Friday that defined high-speed broadband Internet access and standard telephone and Internet access as two separate markets.

CABLE RULES

The Netherlands is one of the world's most densely cabled countries, with more than 95 percent of consumers getting cable TV.

UPC's Chello is by far the most popular cable-based Internet service provider in the Netherlands partly because it operates over UPC's network, which has about a 36 percent market share.

UPC was not immediately available for comment.

Casema, a network owned by France Telecom and operating in the Hague, said it planned to allow other ISPs to compete with its own Wanadoo brand next year.

""We think it's better to focus on our core business and let others take the risk for digital services,"" Casema spokesman Dirk Spaans told Reuters.

The European Parliament endorsed new telecoms laws on Wednesday that simplify and harmonise rules on communications and eliminate distinctions between cable and telecoms networks. Telecoms networks have been gradually opened to competition.

Once the new EU rules receive the expected approval by the Council of Ministers, Dutch competition authorities will have the authority to force open networks if they determine that any company is a substantial market power.

UPC, 53 percent owned by UnitedGlobalCom, is Europe's largest cable operator in terms of customers with seven million. U.S.-based Liberty Media owns 76 percent of United, giving it a 40 percent indirect stake in UPC."	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
487	Netherlands	1998	76	Corporate	"AMSTERDAM, Dec 15 (Reuters) - Dutch postal and courier group TNT Post Group NV said on Tuesday it had bought France's Jet Services for an undisclosed sum.

TPG said the acquisition would have a neutral effect on its net result in 1999, and was expected to be positive thereafter.

TD 

""With this acquisition, TPG strengthens its strategy to be the European market leader in mail, express and logistics,"" the group said in a statement.

Jet Services achieved a total revenue of around 664 million Dutch guilders ($355.6 million) ((1.975 billion French francs ($355.4 million))) and an operating profit of 59 million guilders (175 million francs) in the financial year to 31 March 1998.

The company, which is a leader in domestic express in France, also has a strong position in Germany with its acquired Nacht Verteiler Service (NVS) providing night-time domestic express products, the statement said.

In its 120 European depots, Jet Services employs 2,850 people.

TPG Group employs more than 100,000 people in 55 countries. Its 1997 total revenue was 15.267 billion guilders. It split from Dutch KPN Telecom in June this year.

((Amsterdam newsroom, +31 20 504 5000, fax +31 20 504 5040, amsterdam.newsroom@reuters.com)) ($1=1.867 Dutch Guilder) ($1=5.557 French Franc).

(C) Reuters Limited 1998."	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
291	Netherlands	2009	80	Corporate	"AMSTERDAM, May 25 (Reuters) - The city of Amsterdam plans to set up a company to invest in local wind and solar energy projects, as it aims to source a third of its energy needs from renewable projects by 2025.

The company will work with businesses and housing corporations, the city said in a statement on Monday. It will also invest in a new type of electricity grid that allows remote monitoring for better service and distribution.

TD 

Amsterdam aims to reduce its carbon dioxide emissions by 40 percent by 2025 compared to 1990. It also has plans to increase the use of electric cars in the city centre, and wants to build 200 charging stations around town in the next two years. (Reporting by Catherine Hornby)"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
202	Netherlands	2000	81	Corporate	"AMSTERDAM, Dec 18 (Reuters) - Dutch-based Internet service provider World Online said on Monday its shares tendered for the 3.4 billion euro all-stock bid by Italian telecoms company Tiscali were exchanged on Friday, 15 December. 

Shareholders who have not yet tendered their shares for the bid, which received 96.1 percent of World Online shares, have until 1400 GMT 29 December to submit shares to their bank or stockbroker. 
 
TD 
 Following the period for late acceptances, Tiscali intends to request Euronext to delist the World Online shares from the exchange. Trading in World Online shares on Euronext would be discontinued if Euronext agrees. 

Once the shares are delisted, Tiscali will ""sqeeze out"" remaining World Online shareholders, forcing them to sell any shares not tendered. 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
325	Netherlands	2000	82	Corporate	"AMSTERDAM, Dec 15 (Reuters) - New Fortis chief Anton van Rossum is set to unveil a fresh strategy next week, but analysts hungry for clues on the Dutch-Belgian financial group's growth plans will likely be left wanting more.

Decisions on concrete financial targets and how the group will expand in Europe may not be communicated until the new chief executive - who took office in September - has settled in properly, analysts said.

TD 

""He has said he will give more details of the strategy but in reference to the group as a whole rather than business by business... He wants to be prudent and allow himself more time to examine the breakdown of the company,"" said Kurt de Baenst of Delta Lloyd Securities in Brussels.

Cor Kluis, analyst at Rabo Securities in Amsterdam, believes Van Rossum will use the opportunity, probably next Tuesday, to stress how the group will optimise its Benelux businesses, which already account for the lion's share of revenue.

A plan to focus on low-risk, high-profit activities such as asset management and retail and private banking could also be hammered home, but this is not what the market is waiting for.

""I'm not saying the markets will be disappointed. It's just that this will be a bit of a non-event,"" Kluis said, noting that Fortis plans an analysts' conference call but no meeting.

Hugo van Beusekom, portfolio manager at SFB Vermogensbeheer was less enthusiastic.

""I'm not too enthused about it (Fortis). It's not interesting enough to put in my benchmark index,"" he said.

""The markets want to see concrete steps as soon as possible. What's next? It's not clear what the story is outside the Benelux. Where will revenue growth come from? We want to hear some financial targets,"" Kluis said.

Competitors ING and ABN AMRO have recently unveiled ambitious growth strategies and upped their financial targets, while Fortis has stuck stubbornly to its target of annual earnings per share growth of 7-12 percent. It is time to be a little less cautious, analysts said.

Shedding non-performing businesses to become leaner and more profitable, perhaps scaling back corporate banking and outsourcing services such as custody and clearing and improving transparency are also seen as key.

SAFE BET BUT MUST GROW

Fortis has long been seen as a safe bet, but now most financial-watchers are champing at the bit for some acquisition or merger news.

""The market does not want to wait three years for integration,"" Kluis said, referring to the welcomed acquisitions of Generale Bank in 1998 and the bid for Dutch insurer ASR Verzekering which became unconditional on Thursday.

""The company is a safe bet but people want more excitement.""

Although Van Rossum has said he is not looking at a merger of equals at the moment, analysts believe some sort of tie-up is inevitable, 18 months to two years down the road.

""Fortis has to solve the problem of its concentration on the Benelux market because further growth here is almost impossible. That's the biggest challenge,"" one Dutch analyst said.

Potential partners include Britain's Lloyds TSB and CGNU , ABN AMRO and Credit Suisse .

Also on the agenda is creating a single listing, which the group has pencilled in to happen before the end of next year. Analysts hope the move will be in the first half.

""U.S. investors have made it clear they only look at large caps. Fortis split in two is not big enough, but when it merges into a single listing, people will see it's quite a large company, they will be interested and that will give the shares a boost,"" Kluis said.

Based on Thursday's close, Fortis shares in Amsterdam have slipped five percent since the beginning of the year, broadly in line with the overall AEX index. Fortis BR shares have slightly outperformed Brussels' Bel-20, but the stock has failed to match gains by rival Dutch bancassurer ING.

(Additional reporting by Nikla Gibson in Brussels)."	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
210	Netherlands	2007	87	Corporate	"AMSTERDAM, Nov 29 (Reuters) - Dutch chemical group Akzo Nobel NV said on Thursday it wants its senior vice president for finance, Keith Nichols, to be its chief financial officer after its takeover of UK rival ICI Plc . 

Nichols will succeed Rob Frohn, who will be responsible for Akzo's chemicals unit, which is expected to include ICI's specialty polymers and regional & industrial businesses. 
 
TD 
 No members of the current ICI management board members will join Akzo's board. ICI Chief Executive John McAdam will stay for about six months to manage the integration. 

Akzo Chief Executive Hans Wijers will head the combined group for the next three years. The changes will be effective after the completion of the 8 billion pound ($16.6 billion) acquisition of ICI, which is expected on Jan. 2. 

""It was largely expected that only a few of ICI's top management people would remain in place in the integration process,"" Petercam analyst Jan van den Bossche wrote in a note. 

""For Akzo it is more important to keep the second management layer in place in order to copy the strong working capital discipline of ICI,"" he said. 

The management changes will be proposed at Akzo's annual shareholders' meeting, which will be held on April 22. The takeover, which Akzo Nobel expects to yield synergies of around 2.5 billion euros ($3.7 billion), was announced in August. (Reporting by Harro ten Wolde; Editing by David Holmes) 
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
279	Netherlands	2009	87	Corporate	"	
* Analysts give ING 3-6 months to complete deals * Company says in no rush to sell assets * Shares suffering after results (Updates to change analyst's time frame comment in 5th para)

By Ben Berkowitz

TD 

AMSTERDAM, May 15 (Reuters) - Dutch financial group ING made clear this week it was not in any particular rush to complete its planned 8 billion euros of asset sales -- but to hear analysts and bankers tell it, Chief Executive Jan Hommen may be the only one lacking a sense of urgency.

""We will take our time. We are not in a hurry. We will do it when the time is right and when the conditions are right,"" Hommen told reporters Wednesday while discussing the company's first-quarter results.

But analysts are not so sure that he has unlimited freedom to dispose of those assets, part of the Amsterdam-based group's ""back to basics"" plan announced in April.

""Right now the way markets are, I guess it's hard to really say, but definitely they certainly have a very tight time schedule on their hands -- certainly I would think three to six months,"" said Cubillas Ding, London-based senior analyst in securities investment at consulting firm Celent.

Ding added that the timeframe depended to some extent on market conditions, and that if ING did not complete its planned asset sales in the medium term, it would quickly lose whatever competitive advantages it currently has.

ING, which was ranked as the twelfth-largest bank by market value last February, made a loss in 2008 and received a 10 billions euros injection from the Dutch state in October last year after being battered by the global credit crisis.. The company shares have lost 72 percent of their value over the past 12 months.

But no matter at what pace Hommen may want to sell, he may struggle to find buyers for parts of ING, which could involve its Asian operations, a divided bank and insurer or even the entire group, some say.

""You've got to be able to find willing buyers and it may well be everybody else is in a pinch as well,"" said one London-based analyst who declined to be named. ""It's just merely a function of the climate.""

ING may ultimately be left with no other option than share offerings for units it wants to dispose of, as it did with ING Canada in February, the analyst suggested.

WHAT GOES FIRST?

In the meantime, speculation is rampant over what pieces of its varied businesses ING will try to sell. But with the upper end of the targeted disposals accounting for more than half of the group's 14.3 billion euros ($19.46 billion) total market value, what is not clear is much of ING will be left after any deals.

""They will exit the Japan business and the two joint ventures they have in China,"" said a Hong Kong-based investment banker who did not want to be named because of client sensitivity.

Should ING put its Japanese and Chinese assets on the market, it would mark yet another example of a Western financial institution cashing out of Asian units and partnerships to raise money for troubles back home.

Based on current market values and gross income in the second half of 2008, ING's Asian insurance operations could fetch 2 billion to 3 billion euros.

Though companies may not want to sell out of Asia, the exits are seen as a logical step for ING and other groups that have received significant financial help from local governments. Meanwhile, Russian business daily Kommersant recently reported -- citing sources at a regulator, bank and ratings agency -- that ING would pull out of that market too. ING was quick to firmly deny the report, though.

There is also the question of whether the group could split entirely down the middle into separate banking and insurance companies. Already it has created separate boards to oversee the two businesses, nominally to sharpen their focus.

But SNS Securities, in a note this week, said a full split was unlikely, owing in part to difficulties in finding buyers and the prospect of poor sale price.

AND AT WHAT PRICE?

In fact, Hommen said ING has seen plenty of interest but also plenty of ""bargain hunting"" from suitors after a cheap deal -- a deal that ING says it does not need to make.

Analysts were not so sure, though, that Hommen was not trying to buy more time to get deals done.

""I suspect that some of the more specific deals have not been finalized and that's why they're just painting the bigger picture,"" Celent's Ding said.

And there is always the potential that a buyer could eye the whole company, rather than its component parts.

Shares more than tripled between early March, when they bottomed at 2.50 euros, and the first part of this month, when they peaked at 8.40 euros.

But since that peak last Monday they have retrenched sharply, shedding some 17 percent of their value and cutting the group's market cap to just over 14.3 billion euros.

With that decline the stock has now underperformed the broader NYSE Euronext Amsterdam index by 6 percent for the year and the AEX Banks Financial index by 48 percent. ($1=.7349 euros) (Additional reporting by Michael Flaherty in Hong Kong; editing by Mike Nesbit)"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
446	Netherlands	2000	88	Political	"AMSTERDAM, Nov 9 (Reuters) - Ajax Amsterdam made an embarrassingly early exit from the UEFA Cup on Thursday after missing a penalty and managing only a 2-2 draw against unfancied Lausanne Sports.

Lausanne go through to the third round 3-2 on aggregate, having outclassed the Dutch side in both legs.

TD 

""Lausanne completely deserved to win,"" Ajax coach Co Adriaanse told a news conference.

The four-times European champions opened the scoring in the 17th minute and looked capable of getting the two-goal margin they needed to progress to the third round.

""We had the perfect scenario after going 1-0 up after 17 minutes,"" Adriaanse said.

A measured pass from Nigerian Pius Ikedia found striker Shota Arveladze who easily converted from close range.

Although the same partnership threatened in the rest of the first half, assisted at times by Nikos Machlas when he managed to get past big defender Daniel Puce, they failed to hit the target.

The early momentum didn't last. The attackers squandered chances, the defence became careless and it seemed only a matter of time before the visitors caused an upset.

""After the first goal we should have scored two or three, but it became harder, especially as our defenders didn't play well,"" Adriaanse said. Lausanne forward Javier Mazzoni, who stunned Ajax with a 38th minute goal in the first leg, scored again in the 38th minute with a thumping right foot shot to level the match going into the break.

In the second half a suspect tackle by Aron Winter on substitute Massimo Lombardo earned the former Dutch international a yellow card and the Swiss visitors a penalty, which Marcin Kuzba easily converted.

Ajax substitute Cedric van der Gun then pulled one back a minute later as the home side embarked on a final assault on goal.

They were unlucky not to be awarded a penalty in the 85th minute when Daniel Puce appeared to handle the ball in the box.

Ajax were clearly missing injured midfielder Richard Witschge, defender Ferdi Vierklau and striker Richard Knopper.

Romanian international Christian Chivu, recovered from a groin injury, had a perfect chance to put Ajax ahead in extra time when the referee pointed to the spot following a Puce foul on on Van der Gun, but his weak attempt was easily saved by Lausanne goalkeeper Eric Rapo.

The young Ajax side, with an average age of around 23, must now lower their sights.

Instead of clashes against the likes of Inter Milan and Barcelona, Ajax, currently eighth in the Dutch league, can look forward to lowly De Graafschap in the league on Sunday."	1	4	1	5	0	1			1	4.5
275	Netherlands	1991	96	Corporate	"AMSTERDAM, Oct 31, Reuter - KLM Royal Dutch Airlines said it is trying to sell a Boeing 767 airliner, only delivered ten days ago, which is now surplus to requirements.

""We have a brand new 767 for sale,"" a KLM spokesman said.

TD 

The jet, which analysts say is worth around 70 million to 80 million dollars, is one of two ordered by KLM's 30 pct owned Martinair airline with the intention that they fly under KLM's livery.

However the fall in traffic since the Gulf war, and KLM's decision to extend the service of its DC-10s led to the plan being dropped, the spokesman said. Martinair is keeping one jet, and KLM bought the other in order to sell it, he said."	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
313	Netherlands	1999	99	Political	"AMSTERDAM, Oct 24 (Reuters) - A Nikos Machlas hat-trick helped Ajax Amsterdam hammer lowly Den Bosch 6-1 on Sunday and take top spot in the Dutch first division.

The Amsterdam side overtook PSV Eindhoven who dropped their first points on Saturday when they drew 2-2 at home against Twente Enschede.

TD 

Ajax have 26 points from 10 matches, one more than PSV who have a game in hand.

Ajax dominated Den Bosch, who were trashed 7-0 last week by PSV, but it took them until the 29th minute to open the scoring with a Machlas header.

Two minutes later Brian Laudrup made it 2-0 with a diving header after goalkeeper Maikel Aerts failed to hold a Richard Knopper shot.

Ajax were still celebrating their second goal when Den Bosch got one back with a close range shot by Jan Michels in the 33rd minute.

Six minutes after the break Machlas scored his second with a superb header from a Christian Chivu cross.

Richard Knopper added a fourth in the 58th minute and Machlas completed his hat-trick two minutes before the end with a penalty after Shota Arveladze was brought down by Aerts.

In the 89th minute Richard Witschge made it 6-1 for the former European Cup winners.

On Saturday PSV thought the were on their way to a ninth win in a row, when they led Twente 2-0 through a Ruud van Nistelrooy goal in the 30th minute and Joonas Kolkka in the 69th.

But Scottish international Scott Booth thought differently and punished two identical mistakes on the left side of PSV's defence with two goals in the 87th and 88th minutes.

Defending champions Feyenoord ended a string of games without winning on Sunday when they beat NEC Nijmegen 2-1.

Just before halftime defender Bert Konterman found the net after his marksmen had squandered several chances.

In the 62nd minute Maikel Renfurm shocked the home side with an equaliser, but two minutes later midfielder Paul Bosvelt headed home the winning goal.

The victory brought Feyenoord up to sixth from eighth with 18 points from 10 matches.

(C) Reuters Limited 1999."	1	4	1	5	0	1			1	4.5
351	New	1993	77	Political	"WELLINGTON, Nov 28 (Reuter) - Following is New Zealand's cabinet list with ministerial responsibilities after a reshuffle announced on Sunday by Prime Minister Jim Bolger:

Jim Bolger - Prime Minister and in charge of the New Zealand Security Intelligence Service.

TD 

Don McKinnon - Deputy Prime Minister, Foreign Affairs and Trade, and Pacific Island Affairs.

Bill Birch - Finance, Government Superannuation Fund Department

Paul East - Attorney General, State Services, Crown Health Enterprises, Serious Fraud Office, Audit Department.

Jenny Shipley - Health, Women's Affairs

Doug Kidd - Labour, Fisheries, Energy

Philip Burdon - Commerce, Industry, Trade Negotiations, Associate Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, State Owned Enterprises, Railways.

Simon Upton - Environment, Research, Science and Technology, Crown Research Institutes

Lockwood Smith - Education, in charge of Education Review Office and National Library.

John Falloon - Agriculture, Forestry, Racing

Wyatt Creech - Employment, Revenue, Deputy Minister of Finance

Douglas Graham - Justice, Disarmament and Arms Control, Culture

John Banks - Tourism, Sport, Local Government

Denis Marshall - Conservation, Associate Minister of Agriculture and Associate Minister of Employment

John Luxton - Maori Affairs, Police, Associate Minister of Education

Warren Cooper - Defence, Internal Affairs, Civil Defence, in charge of War Pensions.

Maurice Williamson - Transport, Statistics, Communications, Information Technology, Broadcasting, Associate Minister of Health.

Murray McCully - Housing, Customs, Associate Minister of Tourism.

Peter Gresham - Social Welfare, Senior Citizens

Bruce Cliffe - Accident Rehabilitation and Compensation Insurance, Associate Minister of Finance, Radio New Zealand Ltd, Television New Zealand Ltd.

Ministers outside Cabinet

Roger Maxwell - Immigration, Business Development, Associate Minister of Employment.

Roger McClay - Youth Affairs, Associate Minister of Education, Social Welfare and Pacific Island Affairs.

Katherine O'Regan - Consumer Affairs, Associate Minister of Women's Affairs, Associate Minister of Health, Associate Minister of Social Welfare.

(c) Reuters Limited 1993"	2	5	2	5	0	0			2	5
395	New Zealand	2006	2	Political	"WELLINGTON, Dec 27 (Reuters) - A New Zealand woman is in critical condition in hospital after being crushed by a dolphin that leapt on to her boat, media reported on Wednesday.

The 27-year-old woman had been watching from the bow of the small boat cruising among the marine mammals off the North Island's Coromandel Peninsula on Tuesday when the bottlenose dolphin landed on her, the New Zealand Herald said.

TD 

She suffered serious head injuries and was flown to hospital in Auckland.

The dolphin also smashed the boat's windscreen and bow rails before jumping back into the ocean, witnesses told the Herald.

Coast guard official Steve Taylor said the dolphin probably got over-excited and jumped on to the boat, although he had never heard of such an incident before.

Bottlenose dolphins, which can measure up to 2.5 metres (8.2 feet) in length and weigh as much as 260 kg (572 pounds), are known for their friendly behaviour towards human beings and seldom become aggressive."	5	2	5	2	0	0		1	5	2
73	New Zealand	2004	2	Political	"WELLINGTON, Dec 17 (Reuters) - New Zealand businesses are in good heart but higher interest rates and the stronger kiwi dollar are clouds on the horizon which will help dampen economic growth, Finance Minister Michael Cullen said on Friday. 

The National Bank's Business Outlook for December, which showed a net 8 percent of firms expected business conditions to worsen over the coming year against November's net 17 percent pessimism level, was positive, he said. 
 
TD 
 A net 27 percent of firms expected an increase in their own activity, a net 21 percent planned to invest more and a net 14 percent expected employment to increase. 

""These are all positive signs but it should be remembered that headline confidence, although nine points up on November, is still in negative territory and that there are clouds on the business horizon, primarily in the form of higher interest rates and - for exporters - of the high dollar,"" Cullen said in a statement. 

New Zealand's central bank has raised interest rates six times this year by a total of 1.5 percentage points to 6.5 percent and has warned of further tightening if inflation threatens to go higher. The kiwi dollar hit a 16-year high this month. 

Treasury is forecasting that these factors, along with lower net migration, will dampen growth to around 2.5 percent in the next two years, Cullen said. 
 
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
117	New Zealand	2002	2	Corporate	"WELLINGTON, Dec 31 (Reuters) - Rating agency Fitch Ratings said on Tuesday that it had affirmed current ratings for Contact Energy (CEN.NZ), New Zealand's biggest listed power generator and retailer after its conditional agreement to acquire the Taranaki Combined Cycle power station. 

Fitch has a long-term rating of 'BBB+' and short-term rating of 'F2' for Contact, with a stable outlook. 
 
TD 
 It changed the outlook to stable from positive in November as a result of Contact looking at a number of acquisitions. 

The purchase of the 375 MW gas fired station would provide significant strategic and operational benefits for Contact, Fitch said. 

The station would broaden Contact's generation base, add further flexibility to its business portfolio, and allow further growth in the retail business by providing additional hedge cover, it said in a statement. 

Contact said last week when it announced the acquisition, conditional on regulator approval, that the deal was being funded by a bridging facility, with refinancing expected in the New Year. 

""While Contact's interest and debt coverage ratios are expected to deteriorate given the additional debt, Fitch believes that Contact's increased operational flexibility will largely offset its increased indebtedness,"" the agency said. 

Fitch said it expected Contact to restrict dividend growth and apply surplus cash to repay debt and so restore credit ratios to pre-acquisition levels. 

Shares in Contact, half owned by Edison Mission (EIX.N), last traded down one cent at NZ$3.97. During 2002 Contact traded as high as NZ$4.18 and as low as NZ$3.65. 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
423	New Zealand	1997	5	Political	"WELLINGTON, Dec 19 (Reuters) - A small increase in the number of people allowed to immigrate to New Zealand was announced by the Government on Friday.

The current English language test would be made easier

TD 

Immigration Minister Max Bradford said between 35,000 and 45,000 people would be allowed into the country, depending on how many New Zealanders leave permanently or return during the same period.

Currently, 35,000 immigrants are allowed into the country.

The threshold was being increased with the aim of achieving a net population gain of 10,000 people annually from immigration, Bradford said.

The increase was announced with a raft of other measures including:

* Plans to reduce significantly the amount of time taken to process applications by people seeking refuge in New Zealand;

* Measures to clamp down on immigration scams, including better screening of potential travellers to New Zealand, better measures to remove people who arrive in the country unlawfully, improvements to the appeals systems and special arrangements for

dealing with migrant trafficking;

* Relaxed English language requirements.

Bradford said there had been a decline in net migration levels to New Zealand during 1997, reflecting reduced immigration and also the fact that more people were leaving New Zealand long-term.

In the year to June 1997, 57,722 left New Zealand either permanently or long term and 74,492 migrated or returned to New Zealand.

Bradford said the package aimed to create a certain, long-term immigration policy, which would make a positive economic and social contribution to New Zealand.

Other measures would be announced next year.

""We are also sending a clear message that New Zealand is not a soft touch for those who seek to exploit our immigration system.""

-- Wellington newsroom 64 4 4734 746, fax 4736 212

	 email wellington.newsroom@reuters.com
(c) Reuters Limited 1997"	1	5	1	3	0	2			1	4
17	New Zealand	2009	7	Corporate	"WELLINGTON, Nov 30 - Greenspark Power Holdings Ltd has today announced an intention to make a full offer for all the shares in Energy Developments Limited (ENE) at A$2.75 per share. Greenspark is jointly owned by entities advised by the PEP Group. Infratil, ENE's largest shareholder, is fully supportive of this offer and has concurrently entered into a Pre-Bid Agreement with Greenspark in respect of 31,308,860 of its shares in ENE. The commitment given under the Pre-Bid Agreement is in respect of 19.99% of the shares in ENE. The Pre-Bid Agreement obliges Infratil to accept the offer for this 19.99% shareholding within five business days of it becoming unconditional subject to the terms of the agreement. A copy of the Pre-Bid Agreement, which includes the conditions related to this commitment, will be provided to both the ASX and NZX. It is also Infratil's intention, in the absence of a superior proposal, to accept the offer for the balance of its shareholding.

Infratil Chief Executive Officer Marko Bogoievski said Infratil had been supportive of ENE for many years and understands its business and the challenging environment in which it operates. ""Infratil believes that A$2.75 per share represents fair value for ENE and its shareholders,"" he said.

""During the past eighteen months ENE has undertaken an extensive review of its operations and structure. During that time a number of substantial and reputable parties, including PEP, have engaged with ENE and undertaken due diligence on all or parts of its business. ""While several parties found ENE and its assets attractive, there were a number of factors associated with the business that made it difficult to reach an agreement with ENE on value.

""However, value is ultimately determined by well-informed market participants. Third parties who conducted due diligence on ENE's business and its prospects all concluded that the value is lower than ENE's own assessment.

""It is now appropriate that shareholders make the decision on value, which is why Infratil is supportive of the offer at A$2.75 and has made an early commitment to it."" Mr Bogoievski said Infratil was not withdrawing from the Australian energy sector or changing its investment focus.

""We intend to significantly increase our investment in the Australian energy sector in the near future and are actively looking for new investment opportunities,"" he said.
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
420	New Zealand	2005	7	Corporate	"WELLINGTON, Dec 20 (Reuters) - A New Zealand regulator confirmed on Tuesday its decision to force the nation's biggest telecoms firm, Telecom Corp , to open its high-speed network to its main rival -- but at a higher price.

TD 

TelstraClear, local unit of Australia's Telstra Corp. Ltd , first sought regulatory approval for access in November last year, and a draft ruling was made in its favour in April.

On Tuesday, the Telecommunications Commission confirmed its draft ruling but raised the price TelstraClear must pay for access to NZ$27.87 a month, exclusive of tax, for each connection against an initial wholesale price of NZ$26.19 set in April.

Telecom said in a statement it was still likely to challenge the final ruling because it believed the regulator was mistaken in the way the price was set.

Telecom is unhappy because it wants the flexibility to vary its charges whereas the TelstraClear ruling effectively sets a fixed-rate benchmark for cost of access.

""We remain concerned that the 'one-size-fits-all' approach used by the commission will hurt rural New Zealand in particular because it will focus broadband investment on more lucrative urban areas,"" said Telecom General Manager for Government and Industry Relations Bruce Parkes.

The ruling requires New Zealand's largest listed firm and main telecoms provider to give TelstraClear access to a national bitstream service, so it can offer fast Internet services.

""TelstraClear will be able to differentiate its services from Telecom's broadband services. The result will be more choice and greater competition,"" Telecommunications Commissioner Douglas Webb said.

He said the risk that TelstraClear's traffic might reduce the overall quality of broadband services, especially to rural customers, was outweighed by the benefits.

TelstraClear said the decision was a step forward.

""The ability to provide a range of download speeds and the flat-rate wholesale price means there will be some room to innovate and create real competition,"" Chief Executive Allan Freeth said.

But upstream Internet speeds would be capped, and the price meant services would not be as cheap as the government wanted, he said.

Telecom has nationwide coverage but TelstraClear has networks only in Wellington and Christchurch, and buys Telecom services at the wholesale level to extend its coverage.

Telecom still has a monopoly over the so-called local loop -- the copper wire connection between consumers and Telecom's exchanges -- but the regulator has ruled on occasions on the wholesale services that Telecom should offer to rivals.

Last week, the regulator ordered Telecom to give TelstraClear resale rights to five business broadband services.

Shares in Telecom fell as much as 1.3 percent after the decision before rebounding to last trade down three cents or 0.5 percent at NZ$5.88 in a flat overall market.

Telecom had nearly 302,000 broadband connections as at Sept. 30, against a target of 250,000 by the end of 2005.

($1=NZ$1.45)"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
171	New Zealand	1992	8	Political	"WELLINGTON, Dec 22, Reuter - A Japanese ship carrying plutonium has sailed within 50 miles (80 km) of the French South Pacific territory of New Caledonia, the Greenpeace environmentalist group said on Tuesday.

Greenpeace said in a statement that the Akatsuki Maru was sighted by a spotter plane it had chartered on Monday. The ship, with an escort of two armed patrol vessels, was spotted off the northwestern tip of New Caledonia.

TD 

Greenpeace said the Akatsuki Maru, carrying 1.7 tonnes of plutonium from France to Japan, had infringed New Caledonia's 200-mile exclusive economic zone, and that Japan had broken a promise not to enter the maritime zones of other nations.

The environmental organisation said the ship would, if it continued on its present course, infringe upon the territorial waters of the Solomon Islands.

About 100 demonstrators on Tuesday formed a human chain between the Japanese and French embassies in Wellington to protest at the shipment.

Japanesese authorities have kept the ship's route secret for fear of terrorist attack.

(c) Reuters Limited"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
22	New Zealand	1996	13	Corporate	"WELLINGTON, Dec 19 (Reuter) - Ernest Adams Ltd said on Thursday it had acquired the GLAXO manufacturing complex in Palmerston North on ""highly favourable"" terms and conditions. 

The company said it bought the complex for significantly less than the current government valuation of NZ$18 million plus GST. 
 
TD 
 The GLAXO complex comprises 200,000 square feet of modern office, manufacturing, conference, warehousing and distribution facilities and 4.9 hectares of land within 3 kilometres of Palmerston North's central business district. 

Ernest Adams said the acquisition was a key strategic initiative. 

It would enable rationalisation of some of the company's production and provide significant opportunity for expansion and growth within the food processing industry. 

The company said it was exploring food sector strategic alliance opportunities with food research and business development agencies and authorities within the region. 

--Wellington Newsroom (64 4) 4734746 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
201	New Zealand	1992	13	Corporate	"	
WELLINGTON, Dec 14, Reuter - Telecom Corp of New Zealand Ltd said its share of the national and international long distance call market had stabilised since August at around 86 pct, compared with rival Clear Communications Ltd's 14 pct.

""We have stabilised the market share position from August till now and we expect that this move will consolidate Telecom's position in the market place,"" chief executive Rod Deane told a news briefing held to announce lower call prices.

TD 

Telecom is owned 34.17 pct by Ameritech Corp and 34.17 pct by Bell Atlantic Corp. The public holds 31 pct.

Clear, which is not listed, is held equally by Bell Canada, MCI Communications, state-owned Television New Zealand Ltd and Todd Corp Ltd.

(c) Reuters Limited"	1	3	1	2	0	1			1	2.5
158	New Zealand	2007	16	Corporate	"WELLINGTON, Dec 12 (Reuters) - New Zealand wholesale spot power prices rose last week as a lengthening dry spell continued to reduce inflows and hydro lake levels.

Prices at the North Island reference point of Haywards rose 36.9 percent to an average NZ$68.44 ($53.05) per megawatt hour (MWh), while at the South Island reference point of Benmore prices were 36.6 percent higher at an average NZ$67.06 per MWh.

TD 

""The storage in the hydro areas is pretty low, which causes hydro generators to conserve their water, and that means more expensive generation comes online, pushing up prices,"" said an analyst.

Prices have risen for the past six weeks and have more than doubled since the end of October.

Wholesale market operator M-Co said New Zealand's stored energy over the past seven days was 1 percentage point lower at 73 percent of average.

National inflows were 83 percent of average over the week to Tuesday, compared with 54 percent in the previous week.

In the South Island, where virtually all power is produced by hydro power stations, inflows were 81 percent of average from 51 percent a week before, while North Island inflows were at 92 percent from 69 percent.

Around two-thirds of New Zealand's electricity comes from hydro power.

National demand was fractionally higher at 106,111 megawatts and over the past month has been consistently higher than at the same time last year. ($1=NZ$1.29) (Reporting by Gyles Beckford)"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
432	New Zealand	2006	17	Political	"WELLINGTON, Nov 27 (Reuters) - New Zealand's opposition National Party elected a millionaire former foreign exchange dealer as its new leader on Monday, a spectacular rise for a political novice who could soon become prime minister.

A self-made millionaire, 45-year-old John Key quit a career in merchant banking to enter parliament in 2002 and will now lead his centre-right party into the next election in 2008.

TD 

Seen early on as potential leadership material, Key was his party's finance spokesman for the past two years.

His stocks were on the rise during 2005 and he was tipped as the party member most likely to topple then leader Don Brash, who resigned last week.

But he is untested on the broader political stage and is yet to be seen in action against Prime Minister Helen Clark, a veteran politician who has seen off four National leaders.

Key may be short on political experience but can point to a successful business career as proof of his ability to lead.

While Brash struggled to shake off his image as old fashioned and conservative, Key is seen as personable, photogenic and with a common touch despite his extensive personal wealth.

He is also seen as a more confident public speaker with a better chance to boost National's popularity with women and the centre of the political spectrum, two crucial areas if National is to topple Clark's centre-left Labour.

With coalition governments the norm under New Zealand's complicated mixed member proportional electoral system, Key could also be a more conciliatory leader who is able to forge alliances with parliament's minor parties.

Key's mansion in central Auckland and estimated personal wealth of around NZ$50 million ($33.5 million) are a far cry from his upbringing in the South Island city of Christchurch.

Key was raised by his mother, an Austrian-Jewish immigrant, after his father died when he was young, leaving the family with large debts. He grew up in a state-owned house in a working-class area of the city.

He began working as a foreign exchange dealer in Auckland in the late 1980s and in 1995 was picked by Merrill Lynch to be its head of Asian foreign exchange in Singapore.

Within a few months he was made global head of foreign exchange and moved to London, before returning to New Zealand in 2001 to pursue a lifelong ambition -- a career in politics."	2	5	2	5	0	0			2	5
26	New Zealand	2004	18	Political	"WELLINGTON, Dec 1 (Reuters) - New Zealand's ruling Labour Party has opened up a 20-point lead over the main opposition National Party, less than a year out from the next general election, according to an opinion poll released on Wednesday.

If the New Zealand Herald-Digipoll result was reflected at the general election, due by the end of September 2005, Prime Minister Helen Clark's Labour would have enough votes to govern alone instead of requiring the support of minor parties.

TD 

The poll showed support for centre-left Labour rose to 50.1 percent from 44.1 percent in September, while the centre-right National Party slid to 30.4 percent from 38.9 percent.

The New Zealand Herald said the poll was conducted shortly after Clark presided over a buoyant Labour Party conference and it was revealed that unemployment hit an 18-year low.

""Significant economic growth and a huge reduction in unemployment have clearly lifted confidence,"" Clark told the newspaper from Laos, where she is attending a meeting of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN).

Among the other parties now represented in parliament, the centrist New Zealand First had 5.7 percent support, followed by the Greens on 5.4 percent and right wing ACT on 2.5 percent.

Christian-dominated United Future was on 2.3 percent.

Labour and its small coalition partner, the Progressives, currently hold 53 seats, but have the support of United Future's eight members on matters of confidence and key financial measures.

The latest poll confirms surveys showing Labour has recaptured the lead over National, which surged at the beginning of the year after leader Don Brash, a former central bank governor, made a speech about racial separatism.

Brash had only 20.3 percent support as preferred Prime Minister, giving Helen Clark a huge lead on 57.8 percent.

Since the January speech Brash has kept a mostly low profile, and Labour has moved to head off criticism by reviewing policies such as special incentives to minority groups, and by toughening its stance on law and order issues.

At the last general election in 2002, Labour polled 41.3 percent of the vote against 20.9 percent for National.

Under New Zealand's German-style proportional representation electoral system, a party must win at least one electorate seat or gain at least five percent of the national vote to be represented in the 120-seat parliament.

The poll of 1,000 people has a margin of error of 3.1 percent.

For a rundown on the latest New Zealand political opinion polls, Reuters users can click on ."	4	1	3	1	1	0			3.5	1
230	New Zealand	2006	23	Corporate	"WELLINGTON, Nov 27 (Reuters) - New Zealand's Hirequip NZ Ltd. said on Monday it had agreed to sell its equipment hire business to a Japanese private equity firm and would start to wind up the rest of group and give funds back to shareholders. 
 
TD 
 The company said it would sell the hire unit to PES Finance Ltd, part of Nikko Principal Investments Japan, for NZ$165 million ($111 million), with a further NZ$7.5 million possible depending on the unit's earnings through to June 30 2007. 

The hire equipment division is Hirequip's main asset and the company would now look to dispose of the rest. 

""Our view is that with only relatively small residual assets remaining within the company we may as well return the funds to shareholders,"" said Chairman Graeme Wong 

The company recently sold its stake in a farming venture and is currently disposing of a land holding. Its remaining assets amount to a housing development, some small properties and stakes in three small biotechnology concerns. 

Wong said the company, including the hire business, property and shares, had a net asset value of NZ$1.18 to NZ$1.24. 

Once debt was accounted for, the return to shareholders was expected to be between NZ$139 million and NZ$146 million. 

Distributions will begin with the proceeds from the equipment hire sale in February. 

Shares in Hirequip last traded down three cents or 2.5 percent at NZ$1.15, having traded between NZ$0.78 and NZ$1.30 in the past year. 
 
"	1	2	1	3	0	-1			1	2.5
86	New Zealand	2007	25	Political	"WELLINGTON, Dec 14 (Reuters) - Forecasts for tomorrow. Auckland, moderate northeasterlies, some cloud, 23 Hamilton, light northerlies , some cloud, 25 Napier, moderate northerlies, some cloud, 22 New Plymouth, moderate northerlies, some cloud, 22 Palmerston Nth, moderate northerlies, some cloud, 22 Wellington, moderate northerlies, some cloud, 22 Nelson, moderate northerlies, some cloud, 21 Greymouth, fresh northerlies, drizzle, 17 Christchurch, fresh northeasterlies, some cloud, 18 Dunedin, moderate northeasterlies, some cloud, 19 Queenstown, moderate northerlies, some cloud, 21 Invercargill, moderate northerlies, some cloud, 24 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
445	New Zealand	1998	27	Political	"WELLINGTON, Dec 28 (Reuters) - Scoreboard at lunch on the third day of the second test between New Zealand and India at Basin Reserve on Monday:

India first innings 208 (M. Azharuddin 103 not out; S.B. Doull 7-65)

TD 

New Zealand first innings (overnight: 290-7)

 M.D. Bell	  c Mongia b Prasad	     4
 M.J.  Horne	b Kumble			 38
 S.P. Fleming     run out			  42
 N.J. Astle	 b Kumble			 56
 C.D. McMillan    c Dravid b Srinath	   24
 A.C. Parore	lbw b Kumble		    2
 C.L. Cairns	c Tendulkar b Prasad	  3
 D.J. Nash	  not out			  84
 D.L. Vettori     b Tendulkar		    57
	Extras (b-12; lb-19;nb-5)		  36
		  Total:for eight wickets	 346
Fall of wickets: 1-7; 2-79; 3-112; 4-162; 5-172; 6-179; 7-208; 8-345

Bowling (to date): Srinath 36-6-89-1 (5nb); Prasad 30-8-67-2; Kumble 43-17-82-3; Harbhajan Singh 25-6-61-0; Ganguly 6-0-13-0; Tendulkar 3-2-3-1.

(C) Reuters Limited 1998."	1	2	1	2	0	3			1	2
189	New Zealand	2008	33	Political	"WELLINGTON, Nov 25 (Reuters) - Forecasts for tomorrow. Auckland, light northwesterlies, risk showers, 23 Hamilton, light northwesterlies, few showers, 20 Napier, light winds, mostly fine, 24 New Plymouth, southwest change, risk showers, 20 Palmerston Nth, southwest change, risk showers, 19 Wellington, moderate southeasterlies, brief showers, 17 Nelson, light winds, sunny periods, 17 Greymouth, light northwesterlies, sunny periods, 16 Christchurch, northeasterlies develop, showers clear, 16 Dunedin, southwesterlies later, mostly fine, 16 Queenstown, light northwesterlies, mostly fine, 17 Invercargill, southwesterlies freshen, some cloud, 13"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
191	New Zealand	1993	35	Political	"WELLINGTON, Dec 13 (Reuter) - New Labour leader Helen Clark had ""done a great deal"" in her allocation of shadow portfolios to heal the wounds in the party caused by the ousting of former leader Mike Moore, finance spokesman Michael Cullen said. 

Cullen said he was pleased with the key appointments in the economics area as set out by Clark and deputy leader David Caygill. 
 
TD 
 Clark named Peter Dunne as revenue and commerce spokesman and Annette King as spokeswoman on business and industry development, while Elizabeth Tennet and Paul Swain were given associate finance roles. 

In a statement Cullen paid tribute to the team and said it was particularly appropriate to return former Cabinet Minister King to the front bench. 

King, who became Minister of Employment in 1989, is now ranked at number nine in Clark's lineup. Cullen said Tennet would head a review of all expenditure areas and fiscal policy in general. 

Part of her role would be to identify lower priority spending not consistent with Labour's principles to help free resources for a sustained attack on poverty and inequality, Cullen said. 

Swain would assist Cullen in the area of integrated social assistance. He said the economics caucus committee would have four taskforces to review existing policy. 

The taskforces would cover fiscal and monetary policy, convened by Tennet; industry under King; energy and the environment with Pete Hodgson and industrial relations, employment and training convened by Steve Maharey. 

""We will produce for the next election a distinctively New Zealand Labour economic policy,"" Cullen said. 

 
"	5	4	5	4	0	0		1	5	4
10	New Zealand	2008	38	Corporate	"WELLINGTON, Nov 13 (Reuters) - New Zealand manufacturing activity contracted for a sixth consecutive month in October to a record low, mirroring offshore trends and a local economy in recession, a survey showed on Thursday.

The seasonally adjusted Bank of New Zealand-Business NZ performance of manufacturing index (PMI) was 43.5 last month, compared with 47 in September and 45.7 in August.
 
TD 
 A reading below 50 shows contraction in the sector, which has had its longest period of weakness in the survey's six year history.

""The nosedive in the level of new orders for October will undoubtedly have ripple effects on production and employment in the months ahead, and hopes for some type of pre-Christmas pick-up in activity looks to be fading fast,"" Business NZ chief executive Phil O'Reilly said in a statement.

All of the PMI's five sub-indices contracted during the month, with finished stocks producing its lowest level since Nov, 2003, while employment had its ninth straight month of contraction.

Domestic spending has fallen sharply this year because of high interest rates, a weaker housing market and surging food and oil costs.

The economy contracted in the first half of the year, putting it in recession for the first time in more than a decade.

The Reserve Bank of New Zealand has cut interest rates by a total of 175 basis points since July, and is expected to cut by at least a further 50 basis points to 6 in its December monetary policy statement.

The New Zealand dollar <NZD=> fell about 13 percent during the month, following a 4.1 percent fall in September, but was seen offering little benefit.

""It appears that any gains made via a competitive New Zealand dollar over recent months are being consumed by the downturn in export orders,"" O'Reilly said.

The fall in the New Zealand PMI manufacturing sector was matching a global deterioration. (Reporting by Glen Johnson and Gyles Beckford)
 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
159	New Zealand	2003	38	Corporate	"WELLINGTON, Dec 15 (Reuters) - New Zealand's largest forest products company Carter Holt Harvey Ltd (CAH.NZ) confirmed on Monday it would shut its sawmill in the North Island town of Tokoroa.

Carter Holt Harvey Chief Executive Peter Springford said the company had tried for several years to change the production mix and upgrade equipment at the mill, which employs 90 staff and seven contractors.

TD 

""Unfortunately given the age of the equipment and the markets we compete in, Tokoroa sawmill has continued to lose significant amounts of money despite these changes,"" he said in a statement.

The mill, which makes outdoor, decking and framing timber for the New Zealand and Australian markets, had lost NZ$16 million ($10 million) over the past five years and NZ$7 million this year, he said.

Shares in Carter Holt Harvey, half owned by International Paper (IP.N), last traded steady at NZ$1.85.

The company made no mention of plans for its remanufacturing plant in the town, which in November it said would be partly closed.

Last month the company said it was looking at selling its tissue business so it could focus on core business of wood processing and marketing.

($1=NZ$1.55)."	1	4	1	3	0	1			1	3.5
317	New Zealand	2001	38	Corporate	"WELLINGTON, Dec 18 (Reuters) - Government controlled airport operator Singapore Changi Airport Enterprises Pte Ltd (SCAE) said on Tuesday it had sold its 7.1 percent stake in New Zealand's Auckland International Airport Ltd .

The shares were sold through a global bookbuild process, mainly to international institutions, at NZ$3.58 a share, SCAE said in a statement to the New Zealand Stock Exchange. AIA shares last traded on Monday at NZ$3.80, having reached an all-time high of NZ$3.95 last week.

TD 

SCAE paid NZ$2.90 a share to local government body North Shore City for its stake in November 1999.

The sale price represents a book profit of around NZ$20 million on total sale proceeds of around NZ$107 million.

""SCAE continues to believe that AIA is an exceptionally well managed and operated airport. However, the AIA shareholding no longer fits within SCAE's investment strategy which is now more focused on other international markets in conjunction with Alterra Partners,"" it said."	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
50	New Zealand	2007	40	Corporate	"WELLINGTON, Nov 15 (Reuters) - U.S.-based software group Diligent Board Member Services Inc said on Thursday it would float 23 percent of the company on the New Zealand exchange , raising NZ$24 million ($18.2 million).

TD 

Funds from the offer of 24 million shares at NZ$1 each, will be used for a sales drive in its key U.S. and European markets.

The company, which has part of its operations in New Zealand, chose the relatively small New Zealand market to list because it would gain a bigger profile than in other markets, Diligent chief executive Brian Henry said.

""Listing is of considerable advantage to us, as it replicates the governance status and requirements of the great majority of our clients,"" he added, in a statement.

Diligent produces a program for company boards to manage and store papers and other information. Clients include insurer American International Group and technology firm Motorola .

The float is being managed by brokerage McDouall Stuart, and will run from Nov. 15 to Dec. 5, with a listing due on Dec 11. Diligent, which will have a market capitalisation of NZ$104 million after the float, said in a handout accompanying its prospectus that it was forecasting 2008 sales of US$11.8 million and a gross profit of US$3.6 million.

The company's prosectus, prepared under different accounting rules which a spokesman did not take account of the company's recurring revenue, forecast sales of US$5.8 million and a net loss of US$11 million. (NZ$1=$1.32) (Reporting by Adrian Bathgate)"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
358	New Zealand	1998	40	Political	"WELLINGTON, Dec 21 (Reuters) - A New Zealand XI beat an

Indian XI by 66 runs in the one-day/night exhibition cricket

TD 

match at Carisbrook on Monday.

Scores: New Zealand XI 304-6 innings closed (S.Fleming 73,

M.Horne 64). Indian XI 238-6 innings closed.

(C) Reuters Limited 1998."	1	1	1	2	0	1			1	1.5
277	New Zealand	2008	41	Political	"WELLINGTON, Nov 8 (Reuters) - John Key, New Zealand's prime minister-elect, has capped a remarkable rise by leading his National Party to victory just six years after entering parliament.

Saturday's election result gave his centre-right National and its support parties enough seats to oust Prime Minister Helen Clark's centre-left Labour Party.

TD 

A self-made millionaire, 47-year-old John Key quit a career in merchant banking to enter parliament in 2002.

From the beginning he was tipped as leadership material, and made his move after the party's narrow loss in a 2005 election to oust the gaffe-prone leader Don Brash.

However, Key's new job will come with many challenges, with the country stuck firmly in its first recession in a decade.

""Economically we've got some challenges in front of us,"" Key told Television NZ after his victory on Saturday. ""We have to change, we have to be a stronger, more prosperous country.""

Key stressed his finance background throughout the election campaign, and he told Reuters in an interview he would be one of the most financially experienced prime ministers New Zealand has seen for a long time. [ID:nWEL376751]

Key has rejuvenated a party that had been out of government for nine years by moving it towards the centre and broadening its appeal to blue-collar workers.

He has also taken a more pragmatic approach by accepting many of the Labour government's policies.

But some commentators say it is hard to pin down what he really stands for.

The broad similarity to many of the Labour-led government's main policies has seen National dubbed ""Labour-lite"".

But with coalition governments the norm under New Zealand's proportional voting system, Key is seen as a more conciliatory leader able to forge alliances with minor parties than his predecessor Brash.

Key's plush house in central Auckland and estimated personal wealth of more than NZ$50 million ($30 million) are a far cry from his upbringing in the South Island city of Christchurch.

He was raised by his mother, an Austrian-Jewish immigrant, after his father died when he was young, leaving the family with large debts. He grew up in a state-owned house in a working-class area of the city.

He began working as a foreign exchange dealer in Auckland in the late 1980s and in 1995 was picked by Merrill Lynch to be its head of Asian foreign exchange in Singapore.

Within a few months he was made global head of foreign exchange and moved to London, before returning to New Zealand in 2001 to pursue a lifelong ambition of a career in politics. (editing by Elizabeth Piper)"	2	5	2	5	0	0			2	5
34	New Zealand	2008	41	Political	"WELLINGTON, Nov 11 (Reuters) - New Zealand's Labour Party selected former trade and defence minister Phil Goff as its new leader on Tuesday after Helen Clark quit in the wake of Saturday's election defeat. Clark and deputy leader Michael Cullen, who had led Labour since the mid-1990s, stepped down after the centre-right National Party scored an emphatic victory to end nine years of Labour-led government.

One of Labour's longest serving MPs, Goff, 55 and a former political studies lecturer, was seen the clear frontrunner to replace Clark and was unopposed.
 
TD 
 ""The outcome of today's caucus demonstrates that Labour will be a strong, united and determined Opposition,"" Goff said in a statement.

He has held a wide range of portfolios including foreign affairs, education, and justice. A year ago, a nephew of Goff was killed in an ambush in Afghanistan, while serving with the U.S. army.

Former Police and Transport Minister Annette King was elected deputy leader, and former Health Minister David Cunliffe was appointed Labour's finance spokesman.

Meanwhile, Prime Minister-elect John Key held talks with the small Maori Party on whether they might have some role in the new government.

National already has an assured majority in the 122 parliament, having struck deals with the free-market ACT and centrist United Future parties.

Key promised during the election campaign to see if there was any common ground with the Maori Party, which has five of the seats reserved for indigenous people who make up around 15 percent of New Zealand's population.

Key, a former foreign exchange dealer, has said he wants a new government sworn in next week so he can attend the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Peru, where the global economic crisis is expected to dominate. (Reporting by Adrian Bathgate; Editing by David Fox) 
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
227	New Zealand	2009	44	Political	"WELLINGTON, Nov 13 (Reuters) - New Zealand has reached a free trade agreement with Hong Kong, its ninth biggest export market and eight biggest foreign investor, aimed at boosting business worth more than NZ$1 billion ($730 million), the trade minister said on Friday.

""Hong Kong is an extremely sophisticated market and its proximity and special relationship with mainland China makes it a very important strategic partner for us in the region,"" said Trade Minister Tim Groser.
 
TD 
 The agreement, concluded after only seven months of negotiations, was unveiled on the sidelines of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum meeting in Singapore.

It is New Zealand's ninth free trade deal, and is expected to come into effect in the first half of 2010 after legal and technical work before a final signature.

Earlier this month New Zealand agreed a free trade deal with the Gulf States.

It already has separate trade deals with Singapore, Brunei, Malaysia, Thailand and China, and the 10-nation ASEAN group, and is pursuing an agreement with South Korea. ($1=NZ$1.37) (Reporting by Gyles Beckford)
 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
2	New Zealand	2002	49	Political	"WELLINGTON, Nov 20 (Reuters) - Tourism spending in New Zealand was up 14 percent to NZ$5.9 billion ($2.9 billion) in the year to September, according to a survey released on Wednesday. 

The International Visitor Survey, released by Ministry of Tourism and the Tourism Research Council, said the NZ$745 million rise in visitor spending outpaced a modest 1.5 percent increase in international visitor arrivals. 
 
TD 
 ""The driver of the expenditure performance has been in the increase in the average spend per visit which has risen to NZ$3,431,"" council chairman Sean Murray said. 

The average spend per day was up four percent to NZ$172 and the length of stay rose 9.2 percent to 20 days. 

""To achieve this performance in the post-September 11 year, reflects very well on the New Zealand tourism industry, the quality of the New Zealand tourism offer and our overall ability to adapt to an always changing international operating environment,"" Murray said. 

Australia remained New Zealand's single largest tourist market, contributing 16.4 percent of total earnings. 

Britain, which contributed 14.6 percent of total earnings, overtook the United States as the second largest contributor. 

Tourists from Hong Kong spent the most on average per visit, up sharply at NZ$5,651, followed by Japan at NZ$4,603. On average, Australians spent the least at NZ$1,771 per visit. 

Holiday or vacation spending accounted for NZ$3.34 billion or 59 percent of spending, with business spending making up 12.3 percent. 

($1=NZ$2.01). 
 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
100	New Zealand	1990	50	Political	"WELLINGTON, Oct 27, Reuter - Jim Bolger, son of Irish immigrants, appeared on course to become New Zealand's next prime minister on Saturday as the country voted in a general election.

Since he became leader of the centre-right National Party four years ago, the ruling Labour party has portrayed Bolger as a bumbling farmer unfit to lead the nation.

TD 

But after the last opinion polls of the campaign gave National a clear lead of about 15 percentage points, Bolger, who left school at 15, looked set to destroy a Labour government littered with university graduates.

""He's quite a nice guy but he's not the sort of person that can make quick decisions. He's not a leader either, that's his real problem,"" said Richard Prebble, Labour's outgoing state-owned enterprises minister, shortly before Saturday's election.

At one time such attacks stung Bolger, 55, father of nine children. Once he hurled a ball point pen across parliament when Geoffrey Palmer, an academic lawyer who was then justice minister, questioned his intellect.

But Bolger has grown to accept that he will never be a dynamic politician, campaigning instead as a reliable leader voters can trust.

""I think what New Zealand wants is honesty, stability and integrity in politics and in government,"" he said in a recent television interview. ""We are facing very difficult times and I am going to give my experience.""

The voters may well be ready for such a man after six years of turbulent Labour rule that gave them three prime ministers in little more than a year, including David Lange and Mike Moore, both of whom have been compared with unguided missiles.

""He's looked a solid, dependable figure which, given the mercurial type of leadership that we've had, is probably to his credit,"" said Keith Jackson, professor of politics at Canterbury University.

A devout Roman Catholic, Bolger says he is conservative on moral issues. His wife Joan accompanied him throughout the election campaign but at other times he has shied away from travelling alone with women party workers, preferring to bring along a chaperone.

Bolger has never made a big issue of his faith and has usually shielded his children -- six boys and three girls -- from publicity. He also has two grandchildren.

James Brendan Bolger was born to immigrants from County Wexford on May 31, 1935. When he left school at 15 he went to work on his parents' dairy farm in the lush North Island district of Taranaki.

Married at 28, he moved in 1965 to Te Kuiti, a tiny, conservative community in the King Country district south of Auckland, to farm sheep and breed cattle.

In 1972 he was elected to parliament to represent the King Country. After National won the general election of 1975 he took a succession of ministerial posts including agriculture and labour until the Labour Party swept the government of Sir Robert Muldoon from power in 1984.

In 1986 Bolger toppled the struggling National leader Jim McLay in a coup but lost a general election the following year.

Now he faces controlling an unruly National caucus (parliamentary party). ""He'll never make a reputation for his quick wit,"" said Muldoon, but added: ""He's a superb chairman of a very difficult caucus.""

Muldoon compared Bolger with Sir Keith Holyoake, a National prime minister from 1960 to 1972 who was also accused of being colourless. ""He was able to bring out the best of people who held widely differing views in both cabinet and caucus,"" said Muldoon."	2	5	2	5	0	0			2	5
149	New Zealand	1998	52	Political	"WELLINGTON, Dec 16 (Reuters) - New Zealand medium-pace bowler Chris Pringle on Wednesday announced his retirement from representational cricket because of a continuing ankle injury.

Pringle, 30, was a one-day specialist for New Zealand, taking more than 100 wickets in internationals.

TD 

His retirement from all but club cricket came at the start of his testimonial season.

""I have had this injury for the past two seasons and it is showing no sign of recovery,"" he said in a statement.

""It is frustrating to know that I can't put everything into my bowling, that some of my energy is going into thinking about the injury.

""I don't want to be remembered as a player just hanging in there...I feel better retiring than battling to play the occasional game.""

Pringle said he would continue to coach in the Netherlands.

(C) Reuters Limited 1998."	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
41	New Zealand	1995	60	Political	"WELLINGTON, Nov 27 (Reuter) - A Californian woman washed ashore on New Zealand's Northland coast reported her husband and two children were lost at sea when their yacht sank after colliding with a ship, maritime safety officials said on Monday. 

The woman, who police identified as 41-year-old Judith Ann Sleavin, was found on Sunday afternoon at Deep Water Cove, Cape Brett, near the northern tip of New Zealand. 
 
TD 
 Her husband Michael Patrick Sleavin, 42, nine-year-old son Benjamin and daughter Anna Rose, aged seven, are missing and presumed drowned. 

Planes had begun searching on Sunday for the 47-foot (15-metre) yacht, the Melinda Lee, which was overdue on a voyage from Tonga. 

Sleavin was flown to Whangarei Base Hospital with severe back injuries. 

She told her rescuers the Melinda Lee collided with a large ship and sank before she and her husband could rescue their son. 

Sleavin said she, her husband and their daughter floated on a liferaft over the next three days, until the others were washed overboard. 

Rescue authorities said they would not launch further searches unless more information became available. 

The Maritime Safety Authority has started an investigation into the loss of the yacht. 

Authority spokesman Tony Martin said it had no information to suggest the yacht had been hit by a ship, but it would check shipping movements. 

""We've heard nothing, as far as I know, from any ship in the area which suggests they did have a collision,"" Martin said. 

""But if that appears to be the case, certainly we'll follow up any interviews with the vessels either en route or when they get to their destination,"" he said. 

 
"	5	3	5	3	0	0		1	5	3
119	New Zealand	1991	61	Corporate	"	
WELLINGTON, May 3, Reuter - Lion Nathan Ltd has agreed to distribute the beers of Carlsberg A/S in New Zealand through its wholly-owned unit New Zealand Wines and Spirits Ltd, Lion chief executive Doug Myers said in a statement.

The terms of the deal were not disclosed. Carlsberg has until now been distributed here by Lion's rival Magnum Corp Ltd, which is 54.4 pct owned by a joint venture between Brierley Investments Ltd and Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd -- itself a joint venture between Heineken NV and Fraser and Neave Ltd of Singapore."	1	3	1	2	0	2			1	2.5
141	New Zealand	2002	64	Corporate	"	
In WELLINGTON story headlined ""Powerco (PWC.NZ) says share issue undersubscribed"" please read in first paragraph ""had been undersubscribed by 12 percent"" instead of ""had been undersubscribed 21 percent"" (Corrects level of undersubscription).

A corrected version follows.

TD 

WELLINGTON, Dec 6 (Reuters) - New Zealand energy distribution company Powerco Ltd said on Friday its NZ$150 million ($75 million) share offer had been undersubscribed by 12 percent, leaving underwriters Macquarie Equities to pick up NZ$18.5 million worth.

Powerco said it had been advised that most of the shares picked up by the underwriters had been on-sold and Macquarie now held only around 1.6 million Powerco shares, or 1.7 percent of the offer.

The final allotment of new shares was expected to occur on December 11.

Powerco made the share offer to help fund the purchase of assets from fellow lines company UnitedNetworks and integration of those assets was well underway, the company said.

Shares in Powerco last traded steady at NZ$1.58.

($1=NZ$1.99)."	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
419	New Zealand	2009	67	Corporate	"WELLINGTON, May 12 (Reuters) - New Zealand food prices fell in April, driven by lower fruit, vegetable and meat prices, according to official data released on Tuesday.

The food price index fell 0.6 percent last month, to be 7.6 percent higher than a year ago, Statistics New Zealand said.

TD 

The food price index makes up 17.4 percent of the consumer price index.

The government agency also released data showing the number of guest nights in short-term commercial accommodation fell 11 percent in March on a year ago, after a fall in the number of international tourists.

Last month, the Reserve Bank of New Zealand cut the official cash rate by 50 basis points to 2.5 percent because of the deteriorating global outlook's impact on the recession-hit domestic economy."	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
278	New Zealand	2009	68	Corporate	"(The following statement was released by the company)

WELLINGTON, May 8 - Further to the three acquisition announcements made by NZX over the past month, NZX is providing details of its capital raising programme to fund these transactions.

TD 

NZX announced the conditional acquisition of the energy and related assets of M-co and the acquisition of Country-Wide Publications (CPL) in April. This afternoon NZX announced a potential acquisition of a 50.1% stake in NSX Limited, which is subject to NSX shareholder vote.

NZX is raising up to $20.55 million via a pro-rata renounceable rights issue and has signed a bank facility with ASB Bank.

Details of the NZX Rights Issue: -One new share for every five shares held -$4 per new share -Record date is 5.00pm, Tuesday 26 May 2009 -Rights trading commences at market open on Wednesday 27 May 2009 -Rights trading ends at market close on Monday 15 June 2009 -Completed Letters of Entitlement must be returned by 5.00pm, Wednesday 17 June 2009. A Letter of Entitlement and an Offer Document will be distributed to all NZX Shareholders on Friday 29 May 2009."	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
77	New Zealand	2003	70	Political	"WELLINGTON, Oct 25 (Reuters) - Chinese President Hu Jintao arrived in New Zealand on Saturday, the last official stop on a regional tour, with trade likely to top the agenda.

Hu signed a pact with Australia on Friday expected to include a study looking at a possible free trade agreement, giving rise to speculation a similar advance could be made during his visit to New Zealand.

TD 

The government has said it will raise China's human rights record and Prime Minister Helen Clark has said Hu will not be shielded from protests during his three-day trip.

There were no protesters at Wellington Airport on Hu's arrival, but a small group of Amnesty International members gathered outside the hotel where his entourage is staying.

About a dozen silent demonstrators also stood outside Government House carrying ""Free Tibet"" placards.

During a visit in 1999, China's then President Jiang Zemin nearly refused to attend a state dinner because of protests, prompting officials to use buses to hide demonstrators.

Hu received a traditional indigenous Maori welcome on Saturday and attended a state dinner hosted by the governor-general.

He is to hold talks with Clark on Sunday.

Strong winds meant airport staff had to struggle for more than 10 minutes to align the steps with the president's plane.

Once inside the military terminal, he was greeted by Chinese New Zealanders loudly chanting his name.

At the state dinner, Hu paid tribute in a speech, a translation of which was made available to guests, to the New Zealander, Rewi Alley, who dedicated his life to education projects in China until his death there in 1987.

""He developed profound sentiments and forged a deep friendship with the Chinese people,"" Hu said.

""We will never forget the important contributions he made to the endeavour of the Chinese people.""

Hu's itinerary includes a tour of a farming research centre in Hamilton and a visit to the Auckland War Memorial Museum.

China is New Zealand's fourth largest trading partner with annual two-way trade of NZ$4.1 billion ($2.5 billion).

China has traditionally been New Zealand's largest export market for wool, but in recent years annual exports worth NZ$1.43 billion have diversified into dairy products and timber.

More than 30,000 Chinese are studying in New Zealand, double the number in 2001. China is also an increasingly important market for inbound tourism, with 65 percent growth in visitor numbers in the same period.

($1 = NZ$1.64)."	4	4	1	5	3	1	1		2.5	4.5
18	New Zealand	2008	77	Corporate	"WELLINGTON, Aug 1 - Vector Ltd , New Zealand's largest electricity and gas distributor, said on Friday it would buy back up to 25 million shares, or 2.5 percent of its total share capital, to boost its returns to shareholders.
 
TD 
 ""Vector's board currently believes its shares are undervalued by the market and therefore represent an attractive risk-return proposition for its shareholders,"" Chairman Michael Stiassny said in a statement.

In April, Vector announced the sale of its Wellington electricity distribution network to Hong Kong's Cheung Kong Infrastructure for NZ$785 million ($573 million), about NZ$195 million above book value.

It said the proceeds would initially be used to pay down debt, and it would be on the lookout for acquisition opportunities.

Shares in Vector, 75 percent owned by an Auckland-based consumer trust, last traded up 2.3 percent at NZ$2.23, having ranged between NZ$1.69 and NZ$2.65 over the past year.

Vector would continue to maintain a strong balance sheet to fund capital expenditure for security of supply and on-going growth initiatives, Stiassny said.

Vector reports its results on Aug. 27, and has previously said it is comfortable with analysts' forecasts of full year profit of NZ$150-165 million.

Vector has more than 20,000 kilometres (12,400 miles) of electricity networks and 10,000 kilometres of gas pipelines, as well as about 45 percent of the electricity metering market. ($1=NZ$1.37) (Reporting by Adrian Bathgate)
 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
246	New Zealand	2004	77	Political	"WELLINGTON, Oct 14 (Reuters) - New Zealand's buoyant rural economy helped boost job advertising by 0.9 percent in September, although newspaper advertising backed off a record high, according to a survey released on Thursday. 

Seasonally adjusted newspaper job ads fell 0.2 percent for the month, but a 3.7 percent rise in Internet advertising lifted total job advertising levels to 48,504, according to the ANZ Job Ads series. 
 
TD 
 Many jobs were re-advertised as employers struggled to entice suitable applicants, with the unemployment rate at a 17-year low of 4 percent, and skilled and unskilled labour in short supply, economist Lauren Rosborough said. 

""Consequently, ANZ job advertisement levels are consistent with higher than average wage growth over the coming 18 months,"" Rosborough said. 

Seasonally adjusted national job advertisements were up 15.4 percent on a year earlier, the strongest annual rise since December, 2003. 

The trend in newspaper job advertising was at its highest level since the ANZ survey began 10 years ago. 

Until this year, national job advertising had mirrored movements in the main centres of Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch. 

""However, over 2004, growth in these urban regions has flattened while nationwide job advertising growth had continued to increase, suggesting that provincial New Zealand has been the powerhouse of job ad growth in recent times,"" Rosborough said. 

The next ANZ job advertisements series will be released on Nov. 12. 
 
"	3	1	3	1	0	0			3	1
208	New Zealand	2001	87	Corporate	"WELLINGTON, Nov 29 (Reuters) - New Zealand's competition regulator said on Thursday that British-based transport concern Stagecoach had applied for clearance to take a half share in a joint venture to acquire Tranz Rail's Wellington suburban rail services. 

Stagecoach Group Plc , which operates bus services in various New Zealand cities, wanted clearance to be a 50 percent shareholder in a joint venture with local authority Wellington Regional Council to acquire Tranz Metro (Wellington). 
 
TD 
 The joint venture had yet to be set up and the assets to be acquired would depend on the outcome of talks between Tranz Metro's owner, Tranz Rail , and the government, the Commerce Commission said in a statement. 

""In essence, it will include the exclusive rights to,operate the suburban commuter train network within the greater Wellington region, including the Wairarapa region."" 

Tranz Rail shares closed on Thursday down 24 cents at NZ$4.00. 

The company is currently restructuring itself into a long distance freight operator, and disposing of its long distance and commuter passenger services. 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
63	New Zealand	1995	99	Political	"WELLINGTON, Nov 1 (Reuter) - Queen Elizabeth will formally approve the settlement of a historic Maori land grievance during a visit to New Zealand but a spokesman said on Wednesday she would not apologise personally for past injustices.

The monarch, who is New Zealand's queen and head of state, will give formal assent on Friday to a parliamentary bill which awards cash and land to the Tainui tribe and seeks to atone for the military invasion of its lands in 1863.

TD 

""The Crown expresses its profound regret and apologises unreservedly for the loss of lives because of the hostilities arising from its invasion, and at the devastation of property and social life which resulted,"" the legislation says.

In New Zealand political parlance, however, the term ""The Crown"" denotes the government, not the monarchy.

""As you will know from reading the text, the bill is in the name of the Crown, not the queen, and that in a sense speaks for itself,"" a Buckingham Palace spokesman told reporters.

""This is a legislation passed through the New Zealand parliament... and the queen will give her assent, as she is constitutionally required to do, on Friday.""

Maori lawyers and academics say, however, that the queen's signature on the bill still has symbolic importance because she rarely gives her assent in person. It normally falls to her representative in New Zealand, the governor-general, to approve legislation.

""In a way it makes up for the crimes of the New Zealand state, the New Zealand parliament, against the Tainui people that the queen puts her signature to the document,"" Professor Ranginui Walker of the University of Auckland told Reuters.

""I think honour is satisfied by that symbolic act on her part,"" he said.

Maoris still view the queen as guarantor of their rights under the 1840 Treaty of Waitangi, by which their warrior ancestors ceded sovereignty to Britain in return for ""full, exclusive and undisturbed possession of their lands"".

""Maori have always seen that the only way they get justice is offshore...There's a very long and highly developed sense that justice does not happen for Maori within New Zealand,"" Maori Congress lawyer Donna Hall told Reuters.

She said Maoris held successive New Zealand governments, not Britain, responsible, for ""perversions"" of the 1840 treaty which have left hundreds of claims outstanding for the return of confiscated lands.

The Tainui settlement -- including payment of NZ$170 million (US$112 million) and the return of 15,790 hectares (39,000 acres) of land -- represents an isolated success for the government in clearing the backlog.

A proposal to set a $1 billion ($655 million) ceiling on all settlements has been overwhelmingly rejected by Maoris, who make up 13 percent of the population of 3.5 million.

Maori radicals have held a series of land protests up and down the North Island this year.

Queen Elizabeth arrived on Wednesday for a 10-day visit during which she will open a Commonwealth summit in Auckland.

(c) Reuters Limited 1995"	5	4	5	3	0	1		1	5	3.5
477	New Zealand	2005	100	Corporate	"WELLINGTON, Jan 27 (Reuters) - New Zealand fishing company Sanford Ltd. (SAN.NZ) said on Thursday it has been cleared by the competition watchdog to buy privately owned Simunovich Fisheries Ltd.'s scampi quota.

Sanford settled the purchase of Simunovich's other assets in October, but had to wait for Commerce Commission approval to buy the fishing quota.

TD 

The commission said the purchase would not substantially lessen competition in the domestic or export scampi markets.

The company still needs government approval to acquire the quotas, but said it is able to fish them this fishing year. Sanford would pay NZ$137 million ($99 million) for all the assets.

Shares in Sanford, the country's only listed fishing company, last traded on Wednesday at NZ$4.35, compared with a year high of NZ$5.60 and a low of NZ$4.00.

($1=NZ$1.39)."	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
289	Norway	2007	1	Corporate	"OSLO, Dec 21 (Reuters) - Canica AS, a holding company owned by Norwegian investor Stein Erik Hagen, has engaged ABG Sundal Collier and Deutsche Bank to advise it on the future of its department store group Steen & Stroem, Canica said on Friday.

Canica bought out minority owners in Steen & Stroem in mid-2007 and took the company off the Oslo bourse.

TD 

""In view of the significance of this investment, the board of directors of Canica has decided to undertake a review of strategic options for Steen & Stroem,"" it said in a statement.

""This review includes the potential in and possibility for continued long-term ownership,"" Canica said.

Business daily Finansavisen said earlier on Friday that Hagen wanted to sell Steen & Stroem and that it could be worth around 22 billion Norwegian crowns ($3.94 billion).

The paper said Hagen could use the money to pay off debt or raise his stake in or take control of food-to-metals group Orkla in which he is already the biggest shareholder with 23 percent of the stock.

But Finansavisen also said that Hagen had engaged SEB Enskilda as advisers on his Steen & Stroem holdings, which Canica denied.

""SEB Enskilda has no role for Canica and/or Steen & Stroem in this process."" (Reporting by John Acher; Editing by Quentin Bryar)"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
37	Norway	2004	4	Political	"OSLO, Dec 28 (Reuters) - Up to 800 Norwegians are still unaccounted for after the Indian Ocean tsunami, threatening to make it one of the worst disasters for the Nordic nation abroad in modern times, Foreign Minister Jan Petersen said on Tuesday. 

Overall, 13 Norwegians were confirmed dead among the almost 60,000 killed by Sunday's tsunami. A further 20-40 Norwegians were injured, Petersen said in a statement. 
 
TD 
 He said Norway had traced 1,500 of 2,300 Norwegians known to be in Thailand, the main Asian destination for winter holidaymakers from the Nordic nation. But Petersen said that about 700-800 were still unaccounted for. 

He said that many of them were probably safe and simply out of touch. 

But he added: ""Unfortunately the figures for people who were believed to be in the affected areas, and with whom we have had no contact, indicate that this might be one of the biggest catastrophes to have struck Norwegians abroad."" 
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
256	Norway	2001	4	Corporate	"OSLO, Dec 21 (Reuters) - Norway said on Friday it had approved a plan by Phillips Petroleum to remove the Ekofisk storage tank in the North Sea as well as 14 steel platforms to meet the OSPAR marine environment convention.

""A Council of State decided today that 14 steel platforms and the topside of the Ekofisk tank will be removed from the Ekofisk area and brought to land for recycling,"" the Norwegian Oil and Energy Ministry said in a statement.

TD 

Ekofisk was the first field which started production on the Norwegian continental shelf in 1971.

The ministry said the plan, worked out by Phillips in line with the OSPAR Convention for the protection of the marine environment in the northeast Atlantic, would start with the disposal of the tank's steel topside and 11 platforms by 2013.

A schedule for disposal of the three remaining platforms would be set later, it said.

Operator Phillips holds a 35.1 percent stake of the Ekofisk licence. Its partners are TotalFinaElf , Norsk Agip , Norsk Hydro and Statoil .

Phillips earlier this month said it was considering fresh investments of 15-20 billion Norwegian crowns ($1.7-$2.2 billion) by 2010 to raise production from a current level of about 400,000 barrels of oil per day (bpd) to 425,000 bpd."	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
108	Norway	2006	21	Political	"OSLO, Nov 30 (Reuters) - Carvings about 70,000 years old on a snake-like rock in a cave in Botswana indicate that Stone Age people developed religious rituals far earlier than previously believed, a researcher said on Thursday. 

Ancestors of Botswana's San people apparently ground away at a natural outcrop about 2 metres high and 6 metres long (6 by 20 ft) to heighten its similarity to a python's head and body, said Sheila Coulson, an associate professor at Oslo University. 
 
TD 
 ""We believe this is the earliest archaeological proof of religion,"" Coulson, a Canadian expert in Stone Age tools, told Reuters of findings made during a trip in mid-2006 to the Tsolido Hills in northwestern Botswana. 

The previous oldest archaeological evidence of religious worship is about 40,000 years old from European caves. The Botswana find bolsters evidence that modern humans originated in Africa, along with religion and culture. 

Coulson said the python-like rock had 300-400 carved indentations. In flickering firelight, the patterns might have seemed like scales and given the impression of movement to the rock as part of some sacred rite. 

Scores of carved stone items, including 115 points and 22 burnt red spearheads, were abandoned on the floor of the cave beneath the snake-like rock. Many had been brought more than 200 km (125 miles) across the Kalahari Desert. 

""The snake symbol runs through all the mythologies, stories, cultures, languages of southern Africa,"" Coulson said. The cave, with a floor of 26 square metres (280 sq ft), was not known to archaeologists until the 1990s. 

SLITHERING PYTHON 

In San mythology, humankind descended from a python, and ancient streambeds nearby were believed to have been created by a shake slithering around the hills in search of water. 

The archaeologists, with Coulson leading a team funded by a Norwegian research programme and Tromsoe University and Nick Walker heading a team from the University of Botswana, found stone tools when they dug a pit two metres deep below the snake. 

They estimated that the artefacts were 70,000 years old, based on comparisons with carved stones found in other well-dated sites in Botswana. 

""In the upper levels there is a distinct change to objects from the Late Stone Age"" which began 40,000 years ago, Coulson said. The scientists were working to get more precise dates. 

The scientists believe the cave was a purely sacred site because there were no signs of wider habitation -- animal bones, tools or cooking fires -- such as those found in South Africa's Blombos Cave of similar age. 

At the back of the Botswanan cave was a well-worn chamber, large enough for a shaman to hide and to speak, perhaps in imitation of a snake. 

Coulson said she and Walker had decided the findings were startling enough to publicise them before writing up a report for a scientific journal. 
 
"	4	1	4	1	0	0			4	1
153	Norway	2008	24	Political	"OSLO, Dec 4 (Reuters) - Prices of Nordic electricity <0#ENOALL:> fell for the second consecutive day on Thursday, weighed by lower oil and coal prices.

The most liquid contract on Nordic power exchange Nord Pool, the first quarter 2009 <ENOQH9>, fell 2.1 percent to 44.25 euros ($55.83) per megawatt hour at 1301 GMT.
 
TD 
 One trader said the weak sentiment in prices of oil and coal weighed on the power prices.

U.S. light crude <CLc1> for January delivery fell 1.86 percent on Thursday to $45.92 a barrel in response to the bleak outlook for the world economy and oil demand.

""It's still the sentiment out there for oil and coal which is driving prices,"" one trader said.

The calendar year 2009 <ENOYZ9> fell 0.50 percent to 40.20 euros per MWh, while the front month January contract <ENOMF9> fell 2.1 percent to 46 euros.

Precipitation, weather forecasts and water reservoirs usually steer prices in the Nordic region because it gets half its power from hydroelectric plants. Traders said that the weather was of less importance in today's market.

Nord Pool's average spot price for next-day delivery, the benchmark for the financial power market, fell to 47.27 euros per MWh from 48.41.

Turnover in Nordic power derivatives was 2.09 TWh. (Reporting by Aasa Christine Stoltz, Editing by Peter Blackburn)
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
372	Norway	1991	36	Corporate	"OSLO, Dec 4, Reuter - Norway's Christiania Bank said it won a 5.14 billion crown state bail-out to rescue it from soaring losses.

The Government Bank Insurance Fund said that a condition of the capital infusion was to write down the face value of Christiania shares to zero from 13.5 crowns.

TD 

Kreditkassen declared itself technically bankrupt in October.

Christiania, Norway's second largest bank and known in Norway as Kreditkassen, would be recapitalised by a planned issue of 110 million new shares, with face value of 25 crowns, directed at the Government Bank Insurance Fund.

The Fund would buy the shares for 46.73 crowns each, giving a total 5.14 billion. Meanwhile, the former shareholders would get the right to subscribe to up to 25 pct of the issue at the face value of 25 crowns.

Christiania has 44,000 shareholders and currently 40 million shares in issue.

""Christiania will in an extraordinary general assembly on December 18 make a decision to raise Christiania Bank's share capital from zero to 2.75 billion crowns by a new issue of 110 million shares,"" the bank said in a statement.

The 2.75 billion total is the amount the shares are worth at par value of 25 crowns. ""The new shares will be divided between 83.82 million ordinary shares and 26.18 million free shares,"" the statement said.

The infusion means Christiania would have a capital adequacy ratio of about eight pct by the end of 1991, which is the amount demanded under new international rules from the end of 1992.

Christiania's old shareholders would get the right to buy new shares at 25 crowns each up to June 1, 1992. The deal will mean that Christiania can resume a listing on the Oslo bourse quicker than most analysts had forecast.

The old ordinary shares, worth seven crowns when last traded on October 11, hit a peak of 140 crowns as recently as 1989. Since then, a slump in property prices and record high bankruptcies have driven up banks' losses on lending.

On Monday, Den norske Bank, Norway's biggest bank, said it won a 5.9 billion crown state-assisted bailout linked to a takeover of credit institution Realkreditt.

The difference between the 46.73 crown subscription price agreed by the government fund and the face value of the new shares would go to a reserve to cover any losses on the bank's balance not covered by the write-downs of the shares and the bank's preference capital.

A new review of Christiania's accounts as of the end of September showed that both its private share capital and 2.74 billion crowns in preference capital granted under previous accords by the Commercial Banks' Guarantee Fund had been lost.

The Commercial Fund is a safety net owned by the banks themselves and gave Christiania help earlier this year.

The decision to write the shares down to zero would be reviewed if a study by Arthur Andersen and Co, commissioned last month and due to be completed by December 9, found they had any economic value.

Christiania said it would have trouble breaking even next year due to a modest capital base and reserves.

""We will have big problems in reaching balance in 1992,"" managing director Borger Lenth told a news conference.

The Labour government set up the five billion crown Government Bank Insurance Fund earlier this year as banks' losses soared.

In October, the government announced a new 13 billion crown package to prop up the banking sector. Banks have lost around 40 billion crowns since 1987 on loans and guarantees to clients ranging from indusrialists to home buyers.

Christiania reported a net loss for the first nine months of 7.33 billion crowns, against a loss of 555 million crowns in the same period of 1990."	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
260	Norway	2008	50	Political	"OSLO, Nov 18 (Reuters) - Prices of Nordic electricity <0#ENOALL:> extended losses on Tuesday, dragged down by soft fossil fuel prices and weather forecasts showing a looming cold front passing the region faster than expected.

The most liquid contract on Nordic power exchange Nord Pool, the first quarter 2009 <ENOQH9> fell 3.2 percent to 48.18 euros ($60.82) per megawatt hour, its lowest level since early 2007.

TD 

The calendar year 2009 <ENOYZ9> fell 1.1 percent to 44.30 euros per MWh, also a 2008 low, while the December contract <ENOMZ8> fell 4.0 percent to 51.00 euros.

""The market is trying to find the bottom,"" said one trader.

 ""The cold front is still coming -- starting on Thursday or
Friday -- but it might be over by early next week, quicker than
charts showed a few days ago.""

Traders said weather forecasts showed about 15-20 percent less precipitation than normal, accompanied by below-normal temperatures, which should boost demand for heating electricity and limit capacity at the region's hydropower plants.

""That is why some people think the market will rebound, perhaps as soon as tomorrow,"" said one trader.

Precipitation, weather forecasts and water reservoirs usually steer prices in the Nordic region which gets half its power from hydroelectric plants. Rainy forecasts are usually bearish and dry weather bullish for prices.

Nord Pool's average spot price for next-day delivery fell to 50.12 euros per MWh from 50.93 euros, a level which traders said was below market forecasts.

""The front (end of the forwards curve) is weaker because the spot price again disappointed the market,"" said one trader.

Turnover in Nordic power derivatives was a heavy 5.47 TWh. (Reporting by Wojciech Moskwa)"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
334	Norway	2008	53	Political	"OSLO, Nov 14 (Reuters) - Norwegians tend to want their government to buy Sweden's Gripen combat fighter planes instead of the American F-35, an opinion poll showed on Friday.

Although the poll did not ask people why they preferred one plane to another, the outcome seems to signal that many Norwegians favour boosting Scandinavian defence cooperation and loosening dependence on the U.S. defence industry.

TD 

NATO member Norway aims to decide by the end of the year on a purchase of 48 jet fighters to replace ageing F-16s, needed to better control its vast territories in the Arctic, a region where Russia has increased military activities in recent years.

The deal, expected to be worth as much as $14 billion over the lifetime of the planes, will be the biggest defence investment ever made by the Nordic nation of 4.8 million people.

Among Norwegians who had an opinion, most supported buying the Swedish jet, although ""don't knows"" outnumbered both those in favour of the Gripen and those preferring the F-35, the poll for national broadcaster NRK showed.

Thirty-seven percent said they wanted Norway to buy Saab's Gripen, 18 percent supported the F-35, also known as the Joint Strike Fighter produced by Lockheed Martin, and 45 percent had no opinion on the matter, NRK reported.

The survey by the Norstat polling agency showed that supporters of the opposition Conservative Party wanted Norway to choose the American jet, which would mark a continuation of decades of Norwegian-U.S. cooperation in defence procurement.

Most supporters of other parties wanted the Swedish alternative.

Saab and Swedish politicians have said that if Norway chooses the Gripen, it would herald a new era in closer defence cooperation between the neighbouring Scandinavian countries. Many leftist Norwegians support that idea.

Some Norwegian media reports have also said the F-35 will cost much more than the Gripen, though U.S. officials have said such reports are unfounded and based on unfair comparisons.

The manufacturers and the government have been tight-lipped about the price tag for the planes, partly because the cost will hinge on industrial cooperation agreements as part of the procurement package.

Estimates mentioned in Norwegian media put costs of the aircraft at 40-60 billion crowns ($5.62 billion - $8.43 billion) and total costs of ownership over the lifetime of the planes at up to over 100 billion crowns ($14.04 billion).

The Labour-led coalition government has said it will buy the ""best plane at the best price.""

The Socialist Left (SV) party, one of two junior coalition partners, has made it clear that it favours the Swedish jet.

But opposition Conservative Party leader Erna Solberg said: ""This will not be decided by opinion polls, it will be decided by whichever is technically the best plane."" (Reporting by John Acher; Editing by Matthew Jones)"	2	1	2	1	0	0			2	1
179	Norway	1997	55	Political	"OSLO, Nov 28 (Reuters) - Following are some of the leading stories in Norwegian papers this morning: 

AFTENPOSTEN 
 
TD 
 - Justice Minister Aud-Inger Aure wants to make it easier for foreign women to obtain residency permits after divorcing Norwegian men. 

- More than 200 people have applied for compensation from the state for damage caused to their health from using solvents at work. 

- A new study says that Norway faces increasing isolation, three years after voting no to joining the European Union. In addition, cooperation between the Nordic countries has weakened, the study says. 

- Norwegians will spend an average 2,070 crowns on Christmas shopping, 13 percent more than in December last year, statistics show. 

DAGENS NAERINGSLIV 

- Saving bank group Sparebankgruppen has sold a 16 percent stake in Fokus Bank at 66 crowns per share. 

- Norwegian supply companies have ordered 24 new ships costing a total 5.7 billion crowns. 

- Shipowner John Fredriksen is considering moving his Oslo-based company Frontline to London to avoid a wrangle with Norwegian tax authorities. 

 
"	3	2	3	2	0	0		1	3	2
87	Norway	1990	56	Political	"OSLO, Oct 29, Reuter - Norwegian Prime Minister Jan Syse said that his year-old three-party coalition was stepping down after a dispute over how far to link the economy to the European Community (EC). 

""I will ... put forward a proposal for the government's resignation,"" Syse told parliament. 
 
TD 
 It was not clear who would take power. Norway's 1814 constitution limits elections to one every four years, meaning no vote can be held until 1993. The last election, in September 1989, left no clear majority for either Labour or the Conservatives -- who both lost ground to smaller parties. 

The cabinet met for two hours late on Sunday night to try to thrash out a compromise over the links to the EC. 

The main two options to replace the coalition are either for the Labour Party, headed by Gro Harlem Brundtland, to take power or for Syse to try to form a one-party Conservative government. 

NRK public radio said that Syse might have a couple of days to try to persuade two centre parties now leaving the coalition to continue to give him informal support. 

""It's not clear what type of government will be set up,"" Brundtland said. ""It depends on parties other than Labour."" 

Syse's centre-right government came to power in October 1989, but has been battered by a string of problems ranging from ties to the EC to a dispute over Syse's personal business affairs after he admitted breaking corporate laws. Syse said the three parties had cooperated well, but that they had been unable to work out a common policy towards the EC. 

""The government should stand united on such a case,"" Syse said, announcing an extraordinary cabinet meeting at 1100 gmt to formally dissolve the government. 

Syse would have to inform Crown Prince Harald of the decision. Harald is acting as regent as King Olav is recovering from illness. 

The current crisis flared up when the Centre Party, the smallest member of the coalition, said it would refuse to relax Norwegian laws limiting foreign investment in property, industry, banks and other finance institutions. 

Syse's Conservative Party favours full EC membership for Norway, which is a member of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA). It saw the Centre Party's decision as a betrayal of Norway's promise to take part in a joint EC-EFTA free market. 

The Centre Party said it had not yet decided whether to support a Labour or a Conservative government. 

""I can give no signal what the Centre Party plans to do now,"" the party's parliamentary leader Anne Enger Lahnsten told NRK television. ""I am not trying to hide that this will be a difficult matter of judgement,"" she added. 

But both the Conservative Party and Labour would have to promise hefty concessions to other parties to get a majority. 

The government's resignation affected the Oslo stock exchange with the all-share index dropping 5.68 points to 512.08 in thin trading worth a total of 48.7 million crowns around midday. 

But the EC issue could still cause problems for the new government, whether it is Conservative or Labour. 

The Labour Party has not yet clarified its position towards EC membership, which Norway narrowly rejected in 1972 after a bitterly divisive referendum. 

The Christian People's Party, the third member of the coalition, is opposed to Norway joining the EC. So is the Socialist Left Party. 
 
"	2	5	2	5	0	0			2	5
267	Norway	1997	58	Political	"OSLO, Nov 27 (Reuters) - Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik, trying to dampen controversy over the 1998 budget, said on Thursday that Norway's new government had no secret plans to hike taxes and duties next year.

""The government has no plans for changes,"" he told parliament. But he said that the government was leaving open the possibility of new measures if the case of unforeseen shifts in the economy.

TD 

Carl Hagen, head of the far-right Progress Party which had threatened to pull out its support for the budget if the government raised taxes, welcomed Bondevik's speech as clearing up a ""misunderstanding"".

Hagen had been angered by remarks by Finance Minister Gudmund Restad that Norway might have to raise taxes in 1998 to dampen private consumption. Restad expressed concern over wage growth and high lending by banks.

Bondevik said that ""the government has laid down certain conditions for its budget, which in short mean that we can maintain stability in the economy. The government has no reason to believe this will not be the case.""

""All the proposals built into the budget, and which are based on these conditions, will apply throughout 1998. That of course also applies to our policies on taxes and duties,"" he added.

((Oslo newsroom +47 22 42 50 41, fax +47 22 42 00 18, oslo.newsroom@reuters.com))

(c) Reuters Limited 1997"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
273	Norway	2005	64	Corporate	"OSLO, May 30 (Reuters) - Norwegian food-to-aluminum group Orkla said on Monday that it cut its stake in Norwegian insurer Storebrand to 8.5 percent from almost 10 percent by selling 4.0 million shares.

Orkla said it sold the shares at 54.25 Norwegian crowns ($8.50) each, leaving it with 23.65 million shares.

TD 

Orkla said that it intended to stay on as a major shareholder.

""This is an ordinary adjustment of the portfolio,"" Rune Helland, Orkla's investor relations chief, told Reuters. ""Our intention is still to be a major owner of Storebrand."""	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
353	Norway	1997	65	Corporate	"	
OSLO, Nov 26 (Reuters) - Norwegian Narvesen said on Wednesday that no decision has yet been taken on the pace and scope of its investment in Latvia.

Narvesen plans to apply some of its chain operation experience in Latvia in attractive lcations, available to Varner Hakon Invest, the company said in a statement.

TD 

""A decision can be expected only after results from the first N-kiosks, Esthtique (perfume) and Caroline Cafe are available,"" the statement said.

The company's statement was a reaction to a Dienas Bizness newspaper article, which said Narvesen plans to invest $3.5 million in Latvia in 1998.

The article also said that Narvesen plans to establish 40 N-kiosks and Esthetique shops in Latvia.

((Oslo newsroom, +22 93 69 74))

(c) Reuters Limited 1997"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
453	Norway	2002	66	Political	"OSLO, Nov 14 (Reuters) - Talks between Norway's centre-right government and the opposition Labour Party on a 2003 budget broke down on Thursday and the government said it would seek other solutions in the next two weeks.

""There is no agreement,"" Labour Party leader Jens Stoltenberg told reporters after unprecedented talks between his party and the minority three-party coalition.

TD 

The coalition includes the Conservative Party, Labour's main ideological opponent throughout the 20th century. Labour had been pushing for more spending on everything from jobs to schools beyond the government's draft.

""We have two weeks left. It's not unusual for a minority government to reach a solution very late,"" said Jon Lilletun, parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party which is a minority partner in the government.

The government has a parliamentary deadline of November 27.

The government has just 62 seats of 165 in parliament and so needs opposition support to secure a majority. Labour has 43 seats. The government has already tried and failed to reach a deal with the far-right Progress Party, which has 25 seats.

Analysts said that the government was most likely to try again with Progress. It could also in theory talk to the Socialist Left Party, which has 23 seats."	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
237	Norway	2001	71	Corporate	"OSLO, Nov 28 (Reuters) - Anglo-Norwegian engineering and construction group Kvaerner ASA has agreed to a merger and bailout with its main shareholder, oil and gas services group Aker Maritime , a Norwegian newspaper said on Wednesday. 

The Internet version of the daily Dagens Naeringsliv reported the deal would mean that Aker, which now has about 25 percent of Kvaerner, would end up owning more than 40 percent of the group. 
 
TD 
 The paper said that the deal involved a share issue of about two billion Norwegian crowns. 

It said that the deal was also approved by Russian oil firm YUKOS , which is the third largest shareholder. It said the accord would be unveiled at a news conference at 0930 GMT. 

Kvaerner had said it could face bankruptcy later this week unless it reached an agreement with Aker Maritime ahead of a key shareholders meeting on Thursday meant to vote on a bailout plan. Kvaerner was not immediately available for comment. 

Aker has long been pushing for a merger of the two groups despite opposition from Kvaerner. 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
120	Norway	1992	72	Political	"OSLO, Oct 16, Reuter - Norway's parliament narrowly ratified plans by the European Community (EC) and EFTA to link up in a market stretching from the Arctic to the Mediterranean from 1993. 

Parliament voted 130 to 35 for the plan to create the European Economic Area (EEA) after a sometimes heated two-day debate. The Labour government had needed backing from 75 pct of parliament -- had 42 or more voted against, the plan would have failed. 
 
TD 
 The EEA aims to guarantee free movement of goods, services, capital and labour across 19 nations. 

Norway is a member of EFTA (European Free Trade Association) -- opponents of the EEA said the deal would undermine Norway's sovereignty, partly by forcing Norway to follow EC economic policies without having any influence over them. 

Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland, who favours full EC membership for Norway, said that ratification of the EEA was vital for Norway to be able to compete with other nations in Europe. 

She said the EEA could be a permanent alternative to EC membership if Norwegians decided against joining the Community. 

 
"	3	1	3	1	0	0		1	3	1
266	Norway	2002	85	Corporate	"OSLO, Nov 11 (Reuters) - German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder expressed confidence on Monday that Norwegian industrialist Kjell Inge Roekke could save two struggling German shipyards from a drought in shipbuilding orders.

Schroeder said he had ""the deepest respect"" for Roekke, who controls two shipyards in eastern Germany through industrial group Aker RGI and construction group Aker Kvaerner . The yards employ 2,700 people.

TD 

""What is going to save (the shipyards) is the process of adjustment that they will have go through, and Mr Roekke is going to help them with this process of adjustment,"" Schroeder told reporters, speaking through his interpreter.

""(Roekke) is going to do this hand-in-hand with the existing management, he is going to do this in cooperation with the trade unions"" and with support from local authorities and government, Schroeder said after his second meeting with Roekke this year.

Schroeder, who won re-election in September, has made jobs a high priority.

Oslo-listed Aker Kvaerner, controlled by Roekke through his privately-owned Aker RGI, owns the Kvaerner Warnow Werft in Rostock. Aker RGI owns the Aker MTW shipyard in Wismar - both located in eastern Germany by the Baltic Sea.

Pending approvals from banks, Roekke plans to complete a combination from early next year of the two yards, under joint management to be owned 40 percent by Kvaerner and 60 percent by Aker RGI.

The yards, competing in the construction of container ships, are struggling with a slump in order intake for the European shipbuilding industry amid a weak global economy.

Kvaerner has not spelled out how many jobs might be cut with a combination. Germany's jobless rate was at 9.4 percent in October."	1	5	1	5	0	4			1	5
225	Norway	1999	98	Corporate	"OSLO, Dec 7 (Reuters) - Explosives and chemicals producer Dyno Industrier said on Tuesday its board had decided to recommended to shareholders a 206 crown per share takeover bid from Industri Kapital. 

European investment group Industri Kapital, through Nordkem AS, formally launched its friendly bid for Dyno on Tuesday, valuing the company at 5.27 billion crowns. 
 
TD 
 The company said that its largest shareholders, Norsk Hydro and Orkla , had already agreed to sell their stakes of 38.1 percent and 18.1 percent respectively. 

""The board and management in Dyno are positive to Nordkem AS as new owners, and the Dyno board will recommend to shareholders to sell at a price of 206 crowns per share,"" it said in a statement. 

Nordkem must get more than 90 percent of acceptances for the deal to go through. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
242	Norway	2002	99	Political	"OSLO, Oct 11 (Reuters) - Following is the text of the citation for the Nobel Peace Prize award on Friday to former U.S. President Jimmy Carter. 

""The Norwegian Nobel Committee has decided to award the Nobel Peace Prize for 2002 to Jimmy Carter, for his decades of untiring effort to find peaceful solutions to international conflicts, to advance democracy and human rights, and to promote economic and social development. 
 
TD 
 During his presidency (1977-1981), Carter's mediation was a vital contribution to the Camp David Accords between Israel and Egypt, in itself a great enough achievement to qualify for the Nobel Peace Prize. At a time when the cold war between East and West was still predominant, he placed renewed emphasis on the place of human rights in international politics. 

Through his Carter Center, which celebrates its 20th anniversary in 2002, Carter has since his presidency undertaken very extensive and persevering conflict resolution on several continents. He has shown outstanding commitment to human rights, and has served as an observer at countless elections all over the world. He has worked hard on many fronts to fight tropical diseases and to bring about growth and progress in developing countries. Carter has thus been active in several of the problem areas that have figured prominently in the over one hundred years of Peace Prize history. 

In a situation currently marked by threats of the use of power, Carter has stood by the principles that conflicts must as far as possible be resolved through mediation and international co-operation based on international law, respect for human rights, and economic development."" 
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
436	Spain	1992	4	Corporate	"MADRID, Dec 24, Reuter - Construction of Madrid's new landmark, twin leaning towers being built by Prima Inmobiliaria SA, has ground to a halt.

Prima, the latest casualty among the Kuwait Investment Office's (KIO) Spanish holdings, went into receivership this month with group liabilities of around 100 billion pesetas.

TD 

Building contractors and other creditors must now decide whether they want to take a stake in the project and finish the blocks which will add 60,000 square metres of office space to an already saturated market.

The 25-storey ""KIO Towers"", officially called Puerta de Europa (Gateway to Europe), are visible from the hills 50 km away as they tilt together at angles of 75 degrees to the ground over Madrid's main thoroughfare, the Paseo de la Castellana.

Contractors Fomento de Construcciones y Contratas SA (FCC) and Construcciones San Martin SA, stopped all but essential maintenance and safety work 10 days ago, FCC said.

Prima's 95-pct owned subsidiary Urbanizadora del Norte (Urbanor) SA, which is developing the towers, owes them six billion pesetas, 70 pct of it to FCC, an FCC spokesman said.

According to Urbanor's filing for receivership, it owes 39 billion pesetas to 85 parties. The major debts are given as 5.4 billion pesetas to FCC and San Martin, 4.1 billion pesetas to Koolmees BV, 3.6 billion pesetas to Spanish property firm Vallehermosa SA, 2.9 billion pesetas to parent company Prima and 2.1 billion pesetas to CajaMadrid.

Urbanor said it was owed 12 billion pesetas by Prima and this was one reason it had applied for suspension of payments.

FCC's debt is secured by the towers. The construction companies could swap debt for an equity stake in the project, industry sources say.

A Prima official declined to give the development costs so far or the amount of loans secured on the project.

Cajamadrid, which secured an eight billion peseta loan on the towers, led a 15 billion peseta syndicated loan with 26 other financial institutions to fund the project last year. A Prima official said there was only one outstanding loan from Cajamadrid to Urbanor and the eight billion secured on the towers must be the amount taken up so far under this facility.

If Prima, 34 pct owned by Grupo Torras SA, does not come out of receivership, its creditors will have to finish the building work before they can recoup their investment.

The towers, anchored to 5,000 cubic metres of concrete counterweights, were valued by property firm Richard Ellis at 49 billion pesetas at the end of April this year.

Completion was originally due at the end of the first quarter of 1993. This had slipped to May or June. ""When they will be finished now is anybody's guess,"" FCC said.

Meanwhile the glut of empty offices in Madrid is increasing.

""Rental prices have come down,"" said Peter Collins of Richard Ellis. ""Prime office space now costs 4,000 to 4,250 pesetas a square metre a month. This time last year it was between 5,000 and 5,500.""

A court decision to start Prima's reorganisation, or winding up, could take two weeks to six months, an official at the company said.

Prima had bank loans and credits outstanding of almost 50 billion pesetas at the end of last year. It made a loss of 3.59 billion in 1991 before extraordinary gains of nine billion.

Assets sold last year included three residential plots in the Puerta de Europa development for 12 billion pesetas. In the first nine months of 1992 the company lost 6.88 billion.

(c) Reuters Limited"	1	3	1	4	0	1			1	3.5
234	Spain	1992	15	Corporate	"MADRID, Dec 18, Reuter - Banco Central Hispano SA said it has made a round of high-level appointments aimed at giving the bank greater cohesion and efficiency, completing the merger process that began last year. 

These include Luis Blazquez Torres as director attached to chairman Jose Maria Amusategui, with responsibility for the banking and industrial groups. 
 
TD 
 Epifanio Ridruejo continues as director also attached to Amusategui, with responsibility for corporate banking. Among other appointments, Jorge Hay is named director-general, responsible for the chairman's office. 

Central Hispno, created last year by merging Banco Central SA and Banco Hispano Americano SA, is Spain's largest private sector bank and recorded nine-month after-tax profit of 46.32 billion pesetas, down 11.4 pct. 

Following a board meeting on Thursday, the merger committee set up to integrate the two banks was formally dissolved. 

 
"	1	3	1	4	0	-1			1	3.5
370	Spain	2000	22	Corporate	"MADRID, Dec 18 (Reuters) - Spanish electronics group Indra won a 27 million euro order to supply and install five surveillance radar systems to cope with increased air traffic at Spain's busiest airports.

Installation will begin next year at Madrid, Barcelona and Palma, Indra said in a statement.

TD 

The new radars are the first phase of a modernization programme under which Spanish airports and air navigation authority AENA plans to install a total of 11, said Indra."	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
345	Spain	2005	23	Political	"MADRID, Dec 19 (Reuters) - Julio Iglesias Puga, father of crooner Julio Iglesias and grandfather of pop heartthrob Enrique Iglesias, died on Monday aged 90, a Spanish hospital said.

He was in the news in recent weeks when Hola magazine said his 42-year-old wife Ronna Keith was pregnant with their second child.

TD 

A colourful and outspoken ladies' man who appeared frequently in gossip columns and on television, he died of heart failure after being admitted to a Madrid hospital.

He had worked as a gynaecologist and had survived kidnap by Basque separatists ETA in the early 1980s, when he was held for 19 days in a underground cell.

In a recent authorised biography, ""Iron Will"", he admitted he had cheated on Julio's mother, Charo da la Cueva, for years and had a particular weakness for brunettes."	3	5	3	5	0	0		1	3	5
3	Spain	1992	25	Corporate	"MADRID, Dec 16, Reuter - The Kuwait Investment Office (KIO) has agreed to inject 4.5 billion pesetas of new funds into its Ercros SA chemicals group, which went into receivership in July, Industry Minister Claudio Aranzadi said. 

Answering questions in parliament, Aranzadi said also that the KIO had given a commitment not to put its 90 pct owned Torraspapel SA pulp and paper company into receivership. 
 
TD 
 ""Kuwait has agreed to give additional financial assistance to the Ercros group of 4.5 billion pesetas to allow the restructuring process to go ahead in an orderly fashion and limit the negative industrial and social effects,"" he said. 

Aranzadi had earlier met senior KIO officials to discuss ways of avoiding a collapse in company's controlled by KIO's Grupo Torras SA industrial holding company, which went into receivership last week. 

He said also that KIO had agreed to change its initial decision to appoint KPMG Peat Marwick to manage Torras during the receivership, and instead name a management committee of about four people, two of whom would represent the KIO. 

""It was not up to Peat Marwick to manage a group such as Grupo Torras, and KIO has agreed instead to name a management committee of, possibly, four people,"" he said. 

Spanish officials have said the government had been alarmed at the prospect of a company such as Peat Marwick moving in to sell off assets as soon as possible, with the resulting impact on loss of jobs. 

The KIO commitment of new funds for the 39 pct owned Ercros represents a major change of heart from the Kuwaitis, who had adamantly refused to put new funds into Spain. 

Ercros has agreed a preliminary deal with Freeport-McMoRan Inc to sell its losing Fesa-Enfersa SA fertilisers division, but lack of agreement with creditors to restructure its debts and pension fund shortfalls have blocked progress. 

Aranzadi said the KIO had given a commitment that its plans to disinvest in Torras group companies would not turn into a complete withdrawal from Spain and that it would retain investments there. 

""Present developments at Grupo Torras do not represent a decision by KIO to not maintain investments in Spain,"" he said. 

Aranzadi said the commitment given to him by KIO was one endorsed by the Kuwaiti government. 

""The Kuwaiti goverment supports the new proposals agreed by the KIO and the willingness to continue investing in Spain is one it also endorses,"" said Aranzadi. 

He did not give any further details on the new funding for Ercros, other than that it would be in the form of a credit line. 

Three opposition parties meanwhile called for a Congressional investigating committee to be set up to look at KIO's investments in Spain. 

 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
464	Spain	1992	25	Corporate	"MADRID, Dec 16, Reuter - The Kuwait Investment Office (KIO) has agreed to inject 4.5 billion pesetas ($40 million) into its Ercros SA chemicals group, which went into receivership last July, Industry Minister Claudio Aranzadi said on Wednesday.

Answering questions in parliament, Aranzadi also said KIO had given a commitment not to put its 90 pct owned Torraspapel SA pulp and paper company into receivership.

TD 

""Kuwait has agreed to give additional financial assistance to the Ercros group of 4.5 billion pesetas to allow the restructuring process to go ahead in an orderly fashion and limit the negative industrial and social effects,"" he said.

He said the new funding would be in the form of a credit line to keep the loss-making company operating.

The commitment to put new funds into Ercros represents a significant change of heart by the KIO which had adamantly refused to give more financial support and last week put its Grupo Torras SA holding company into receivership.

Aranzadi, who had earlier met senior KIO officials to discuss ways of avoiding a collapse in companies controlled by Torras, said KIO had agreed to work towards limiting the negative impact of the suspension of payments.

Three opposition political parties on Wednesday called for an Congress investigating committee to be set up to report on the collapse of KIO's investments in Spain, put at $5 billion pesetas ($45 million).

Aranzadi said the KIO had given a commitment that its plans to disinvest in Torras group companies would not turn into a complete withdrawal from Spain and it would retain investments there.

""Present developments at Grupo Torras do not represent a decision by KIO to not maintain investments in Spain,"" he said.

He said KIO's decision to put Torras into receivership had been a mistake, since less than 10 billion pesetas ($90 million) of its debts were with third parties. The rest of the 211.02 billion ($1.87 billion) was with the KIO itself.

Aranzadi said also that KIO had agreed to changing its initial decision to appoint KPMG Peat Marwick to manage Torras during the receivership, and instead name a management committee of about four people, two of whom would represent the KIO.

""It was not up to Peat Marwick to manage a group such as Grupo Torras and KIO has agreed instead to name a management committee of, possibly, four people,"" he said.

Spanish officials have said the government had been alarmed at the prospect of a company such as Peat Marwick moving in to sell off assets as soon as possible, with the resulting impact on loss of jobs and negotiations with foreign partners.

Ercros, 39 per cent owned by Torras, has agreed a preliminary deal with Freeport-McMoRan Inc of the United States to sell its loss-making Fesa-Enfersa SA fertilisers division, but an impasse on debt restructuring and meeting pension fund commitments have blocked progress.

(c) Reuters Limited"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
471	Spain	2005	25	Political	"(Adds confirmation, names, details)

MADRID, Dec 19 (Reuters) - Two sailors died on Monday when a pipe exploded in the boiler room of a Spanish Navy ship, the Navy said.

TD 

The frigate ""Extremadura"" was preparing to leave the northwestern port of Ferrol when a steam pipe, part of the ship's propulsion system, exploded at 2.20 A.M. (0120 GMT), the Navy said in a statement.

The sailors killed were named as Francisco Perez Castrillon, 28, and Erik Noval Gomez, 20.

No other crew members were hurt, the statement said, adding that Navy chiefs had ordered an investigation.

The ""Extremadura"" entered service in 1976 and is scheduled to be withdrawn in 2009."	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
62	Spain	2000	29	Political	"BARCELONA, Dec 21 (Reuters) - Barcelona defender Sergi was released from hospital on Thursday after spending the night under observation because of a head injury suffered in the club's 3-2 win over Alaves. 

The Spanish international full back was substituted after 12 minutes of Wednesday's game following an accidental clash with team mate Marc Overmars. 
 
TD 
 ""It was important for him to see a specialist but no serious injury was found,"" said Barcelona club doctor Josep Borrell. 
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
327	Spain	1995	31	Corporate	"MALAGA, Spain, Oct 24 (Reuter) - Spanish independent Melilla Jet, whose brand name is Paukn Air, opens its third route between the Spanish North African enclave of Melilla and Almeria on the south coast on November 1, a spokeswoman said.

It started operations at the end of September and flies from Melilla to Madrid and Malaga, competing with Iberia's subsidiary Binter on the Malaga service.

TD 

(c) Reuters Limited 1995"	3	1	2	1	1	0		1	2.5	1
359	Spain	1995	32	Political	"MADRID, Dec 16 (Reuter) - European Union leaders met for the second day of their summit on Saturday, pledging to prepare for the 21st century with a single currency and new members.

Leaders of the 11 countries from eastern Europe and the Mediterranean who hope to join the bloc were due at the summit later in the day to be briefed on the EU's plans.

TD 

Draft conclusions from the summit set out what the leaders called a political agenda to prepare for the new century, including enlargement, creating a single currency by January 1, 1999 and reviewing EU treaties to make it all work.

The leaders met some of their goals on Friday, agreeing on the timetable for the new single currency and naming it the Euro. They also agreed to launch their inter-governmental treaty review in Turin, Italy, on March 29 next year.

""Success in all these tasks will mean that a large community enjoying the benefits of freedom, prosperity and stability can be set up Europe-wide,"" the draft said.

""Enlargement is both a political necessity and a historic opportunity for Europe,"" the draft conclusions state.

But the leaders, aware of the difficulties of bringing in the backward economies of the east, stopped short of setting a date for negotiations to begin with the old communist bloc.

The draft calls instead for the European Commission to prepare a series of reports on the candidate countries and the impact of enlargement by the end of the treaty review, so that governments can decide ""at the earliest opportunity"" after that when to open formal negotiations and with which applicants.

Cyprus and Malta have already been told they can open negotiations six months after the review, likely to last until mid-1997.

Diplomats said some delegations, particularly the Scandinavian countries, were still arguing for clearer language in the summit statement to ensure there would be no discrimination against countries such as the Baltic states.

Economically and politically weaker east European countries fear they could fall behind neighbours such as Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic and risk isolation unless the EU starts all the negotiations at the same time.

""This would have a big political significance because this way the EU's decision to expand eastwards would be confirmed,"" said a foreign ministry spokesman in Bulgaria, which is about to present its formal application for membership.

In other matters, the summit, while welcoming the upcoming elections in Russia, said the leaders hoped it ""will strengthen respect for human rights and the consolidation of peace, stability and security in Europe.""

Friday's move on the single currency was designed to quieten fear that the EU's monetary project would be delayed, although some of the main issues, notably the relations between countries in the single currency and those outside were not decided.

Giving the currency a name in the meantime -- the Euro -- will allow the Union to launch a publicity campaign to prepare a sceptical public for the new money.

(c) Reuters Limited 1995"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
397	Spain	2006	32	Corporate	"MADRID, Nov 29 (Reuters) - Spain will raise electricity prices in 2007 by more than the rate of inflation for most domestic users, Ignasi Nieto, secretary general for energy at the Industry Ministry, said on Wednesday.

Households now pay the same price per kilowatt hour (KWh) regardless of how much or how little they use. Small flats may contract a supply capacity of as little as 0.75 KW while bigger houses take 15 KW, Nieto said.

TD 

What the government will do from next year is differentiate, and charge smaller users less than bigger ones.

""For some groups of users prices will rise by only inflation. That would be for families with the lowest incomes,"" he said.

That means prices would rise by more than inflation for other users.

Inflation is expected to finish the year at rate of between 2.5 and 3 percent and could drop as low as 2 percent early next year.

Households now pay around 30 percent below cost for their power and the government is under pressure to close that gap within the next few years."	1	3	1	3	0	2			1	3
248	Spain	1993	36	Political	"MADRID, Dec 13 (Reuter) - A picture of Real Madrid striker Alfonso Perez with his head buried in his hands after missing an easy goalscoring chance dominated the sports papers and seemed to sum up the feeling of despair at Spain's richest and most powerful club on Monday. 

Real, Spanish champions a record 25 times have been eclipsed in the title race by Barcelona for the past three seasons. They were left rueing their lost chances in the goalless draw against Sevilla which saw them slip a little further behind unfashionable league leaders Deportivo La Coruna. 
 
TD 
 With 15 matches played, La Coruna lead with 22 points, followed by Barcelona on 21, Sporting Gijon on 20 and Real Madrid and Athletic Bilbao together on 19. 

Real have improved since a poor start to the season, but coach Benito Floro admitted after the 0-0 draw: ""We lacked mobility, control and skill in our passes."" 

The result saw Real drift down from third to fourth place on and widened the gap with leaders La Coruna to three points. 

Real, for years virtually unbeatable at their Santiago Bernabeu stadium, have now lost five points at home this season from two defeats and a draw. 

In the highly competitve race for this year's Spanish title, that is not championship form. 

Real's Chilean striker Ivan Zamorano said the draw was a setback after a run of good results. 

""Sevilla played with six defenders, built a wall and came to the Bernabeu for a draw."" 

Sevilla's coach Luis Aragones said his team had played well defensively but that their attacks lacked spark. 

""Real Madrid had practically no chance of goals. Our problem has been not attacking enough,"" he said. 

La Coruna, whose best ever performance in the league was when they finished as runners-up to Atletico Madird in 1950, moved back to the top after their 1-0 away win over Tenerife -- although trainer Arsenio Iglesias said a draw would have been a fairer result. 

Defending champions Barcelona were top for 24 hours after winning 4-0 at Valencia on Saturday -- but were nudged back into second place after Deportivo won on Sunday. 

It is nearly 70 years since Valencia suffered such a humiliating defeat on their home ground. 

 
"	1	5	1	4	0	1			1	4.5
460	Spain	2008	40	Corporate	"MADRID, Nov 21 (Reuters) - A consortium led by Spain's Tecnicas Reunidas and Sacyr Vallehermoso unit Valoriza has been awarded a contract to build and operate a desalination plant in Perth, Australia, the country's Water Corporation said.

In a press release on Thursday, Water Corporation said the total cost of the plant's construction is estimated at 1 billion Australian dollars ($627.4 million).

TD 

Tecnicas Reunidas and Valoriza will operate the plant for 25 years, it said. ($1=1.594 Australian Dollar) (Reporting by Tracy Rucinski; Editing by Mike Nesbit)"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
474	Spain	1995	42	Corporate	"MADRID (Reuter) - A leading Spanish bank has launched a plan to attract depositors by offering a higher rate if they guess how their soccer team does.

Calling it the ""Deposito Campeon"" -- Champion Deposit -- state-owned Argentaria SA hopes to pull in the crowds in one of Europe's most fanatical soccer nations.

TD 

A bank spokesman said Tuesday the scheme involves depositing a minimum 200,000 pesetas ($1,600) over three years, with a top interest rate of 13 percent for the depositor who selects the right Spanish team.

Depositors have three options: to choose the winner of the league, which is rewarded with 13 percent interest, any of the following three places, which pays 11 percent, or any team selected to avoid relegation to a lower league, paying 8 percent.

If the depositor guesses wrong, he gets 4 percent, just below present market rates.

Several years ago a Spanish football club, Espanol, launched bonds whose payment was linked to its results. But it was relegated to a lower league.

(c) Reuters Limited 1995"	1	2	1	1	0	1			1	1.5
88	Spain	2001	60	Political	"MADRID, Nov 15 (Reuters) - Spain's Princess Cristina and her husband Inaki Urdangarin are expecting a third child, who will be eighth in line to the throne, court sources said on Thursday. 

The news was greeted with ""satisfaction and joy"" in both families, said a source at the Zarzuela Palace. 
 
TD 
 Urdangarin and Princess Cristina, fifth in line to the throne, already have two boys, Juan Valentin de Todos los Santos, aged two, and Pablo Nicolas, who will be one next December. 

Princess Cristina, the second daughter of King Juan Carlos and Queen Sofia, is fifth in line to the throne. Her younger brother, the unmarried Prince Felipe, is the heir to the throne, followed by the king's eldest daughter, Elena. 

Princess Cristina married Urdangarin, a Basque handball player, in 1997 in the Catalan city of Barcelona where she lives and works. 
 
"	5	3	5	3	0	0			5	3
199	Spain	2002	67	Political	"MADRID, Nov 23 (Reuters) - A member of armed Basque separatist group ETA, convicted of six murders, was found shot dead in a wood on Saturday, police said, in a suspected suicide weeks after he was released on parole. 

Basque news agency Vasco-Press and national radio said early reports from an autopsy showed Ramon Gil Ostoaga had fired a single shot into his heart. He was found with a shotgun, which investigation sources said was his brother's, lying beside him. 
 
TD 
 Gil Ostoaga was freed on parole by Judge Ruth Alonso in October after serving 12 years of a 298-year sentence, officials said. 

But Alonso told television channel Tele-5 on Saturday she had spoken to Gil Ostoaga the day before and told him that he would probably have to return to jail. 

Gil Ostoaga's release prompted controversy in Spain and brought criticism from government members. Local press reported that the judge and her family received death threats while friends and a brother of the former prisoner told reporters on Saturday they had received menacing calls since his conditional release. 

Judicial authorities launched an investigation into the judge's decision, which was later shelved. 

Spanish Interior Minister Angel Acebes told reporters earlier on Saturday ETA was to blame for Gil Ostoaga's death. 

""Whether it is suicide or not...I think the terrorist organisation ETA bears the ultimate responsibility for whatever might have happened,"" Acebes told reporters. 

Also on Saturday, Mexico handed over to Spain alleged ETA member Jose Antonio Borde Gaztelumendi, suspected of 16 murders between 1978 and 1983, the interior ministry said, adding that he was one of the most wanted ETA activists. 

ETA has killed more than 800 people since 1968 to press its demands for an independent state in Basque areas of northern Spain and southwestern France. (Additional reporting by Jesus Aguado). 
 
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
137	Spain	2007	70	Political	"MADRID, Nov 28 (Reuters) - Prisoners have released three warders taken hostage in a jail in Spain's eastern city of Valencia, a senior official said on Wednesday. 

Four prisoners in the city's Picassent jail had held the officers since Tuesday evening and asked for drugs and guarantees they would be released and not harmed, said Penitentiary Institutions General Director Mercedes Gallizo. 
 
TD 
 ""It hasn't been necessary to use force. It's been a long process of negotiation,"" said Gallizo. 

The prisoners are being transferred to other jails and face punishment for taking the warders hostage, she said. (Reporting by Blanca Rodriguez and Andrew Hay; Editing by Janet Lawrence) 
 
"	3	1	3	1	0	0		1	3	1
114	Spain	1997	73	Political	"MADRID, Dec 14 (Reuters) - Real Madrid disappointed their fans with a drab 1-0 victory over Merida on Sunday which kept them in touch with leaders Barcelona. 

Real won thanks to an own goal from defender Mariano, and saw Merida's Marcos blast a penalty over the bar midway through the second half. 
 
TD 
 Barcelona stayed two points ahead of their arch-rivals after beating Espanyol 3-1 on Saturday. Third-placed Atletico Madrid were set to play at Tenerife later. 

Valencia moved out of the relegation zone after a comfortable 4-1 victory over Compostela, with Argentine internationals Claudio Lopez and Ariel Ortega both on target.
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
94	Spain	2006	76	Corporate	"MADRID, Nov 27 (Reuters) - It is unlikely that Bankinter will be taken over because 35 percent of its capital is owned by board members who are unwilling to sell, the Spanish bank's chairman was quoted as saying on Monday. 

Bankinter, Spain's fifth-largest bank, has long been seen as a takeover target and speculation has helped its shares rise about 25 percent so far this year. 
 
TD 
 ""Every time another bank approaches us with the intention to buy, I ask the board, which includes the biggest shareholders with 35 percent of the capital, and they say that they don't want to sell,"" Chairman Juan Arena told El Pais newspaper. 

""Since I don't believe any offer would succeed without the approval of the board -- in other words a friendly bid -- I don't think it's likely that a takeover would be successful. 

This month, media quoted one of the key shareholders, Ram Bhavnani, as saying he had been approached by various bidders interested in his 12.3 percent stake but that he would back a Spanish merger, naming Banco Sabadell in particular. 

Sabadell Chairman Jose Oliu said he would be willing to talk to Bankinter about a merger but said the Barcelona-based bank would lead any deal and ruled out a merger of equals. 

Arena said Bankinter, which has a market capitalisation of 4.6 billion euros ($6.0 billion), was attractive because of its technology platform and its financial strength. 

""It is attractive, but we want to continue alone in order to develop our model. What's more, we have enough strength to do so,"" he said. 
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
247	Spain	2007	76	Political	"MADRID, Nov 26 (Reuters) - Three migrants who tried to cross the Strait of Gibraltar to Spain by paddling a windsurfing board were rescued by a ferry, Spanish daily El Mundo said on Monday. 

The migrants were rowing the board with toy oars and pulling belongings behind them in a tyre, said Miguel Marin, a passenger on the ferry bound for Tangiers in Morocco on Nov. 20. 
 
TD 
 ""They had no shoes and they were soaked through"", Marin told El Mundo. 

""Some of the crew spoke Arabic and they were able to communicate with the three immigrants ... One of them resisted getting into the boat at the start, but they finally managed to convince him."" 

The Strait of Gibraltar, which connects the Atlantic to the Mediterranean, divides Spain from Morocco and is about eight miles (13 kms) wide at its narrowest point. (Reporting by Sarah Morris; editing by Robert Woodward) 
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
271	Spain	1996	77	Corporate	"BARCELONA, Spain, Nov 14 (Reuter) - A sharp rise in air cargo traffic from Barcelona could mean airlines are flying more international freight directly from Barcelona instead of taking it by road first to their hubs in other European or Spanish cities, an airport spokesman said.

""We think companies which were taking cargo by road to Madrid or to other European capitals are taking more of it direct,"" he said.

TD 

""We are recovering market share (against road transport)...and this tendency will strengthen,"" he added.

Barcelona handled 64,847 tonnes of cargo in the 10 months to end October, 19 percent ahead of the same period 1995 and approaching the full year 1995 total of 68,285 tonnes.

Cargo volume rose 33 percent in October alone thanks largely to a strong performance on international (non-European Union) scheduled routes. Intra-European Union traffic was steady.

Barcelona's new cargo terminal, where independent operators can compete with state-owned Iberia, opened just over a month ago and is beginning to contribute to increased cargo volumes, the spokesman said.

- Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017

(c) Reuters Limited 1996"	1	4	1	3	0	1			1	3.5
6	Spain	1999	78	Corporate	"MADRID, Dec 13 (Reuters) - Spanish telecommunications and data services provider Jazztel Plc said on Monday it was talking to Germany's Deutsche Telekom about making a joint bid for a Spanish mobile telephony licence. 

""We are in negotiations with Deutsche Telekom, although nothing has been signed yet,"" a Jazztel spokesman told Reuters. 
 
TD 
 The government is auctioning four latest technology mobile operator licences and has asked for bids by January 12. 

The conditions of the sale imply that the three existing mobile operators - Telefonica , Airtel and Amena - will win three of these licences, leaving the fourth for a new competitor to enter the market. 

According to a report in El Pais on Saturday the main competitors of the Telekom and Jazztel team are France Telecom which operates in Spain via its fixed-operator Uni2, Mexican telecommunications giant Telmex , Finnish group Sonera , and the U.S. SBC Communications and BellSouth Corporation . 

((Madrid newsroom, +34 91 585-8340, madrid.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
177	Spain	1996	78	Corporate	"MADRID, Dec 4 (Reuter) - Spain's Banco Bilbao Vizcaya said on Wednesday that it was interested in investing in Banco Provincial de Venezuela, as well as in other Venezuelan financial institutions. 

""We've set our sights on Banco Provincial de Venezuela,"" a BBV spokesman told Reuters. 
 
TD 
 The spokesman said BBV was carefully studying the banking market in Venezuela for possible stake purchases, but there was nothing concrete in the case of Provincial or other banks. 

""In some cases we are looking at conditions to buy stakes, and in others, to participate via auctions,"" the spokesman said. 

He added that BBV is ""interested in good banks at good prices."" 

The president of Banco Provincial de Venezuela, Jose Maria Nogueroles, denied local reports that BBV had bought a controlling stake in Provincial. 

""At the moment we have no information there there has been a share sale,"" a local newspaper quoted him as saying. 

BBV has been pre-selected to participate in the auction of local banks Banco Consolidado and Banco de Venezuela. 

 
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
468	Spain	2002	83	Political	"MADRID, Nov 23 (Reuters) - A member of armed Basque separatist group ETA who had been convicted of six murders was found shot dead on Saturday, police said, weeks after he was released on parole.

He had been shot in the chest. A shotgun was found by his body in a wood.

TD 

Ramon Gil Ostoaga was freed by Judge Ruth Alonso in October after serving 12 years of a 298-year sentence, officials said. Local press reported that she and her family received death threats after her controversial decision.

Spanish Interior Minister Angel Acebes said he did not rule out suicide.

""The autopsy is being carried out and the initial signs, the shotgun, point to suicide,"" Acebes told reporters.

""Whether it is suicide or not...I think the terrorist organisation ETA bears the ultimate responsibility for whatever might have happened, whether it was caused by someone else, in which case murder, or whether it was suicide,"" he added.

Sources involved in the investigation said the shotgun belonged to Gil Ostoaga's brother.

After Alonso released the ETA member, the central government criticised her decision and judicial authorities launched an investigation into the case, which was later shelved.

Also on Saturday, Mexico handed over to Spain alleged ETA member Jose Antonio Borde Gaztelumendi, suspected of 16 murders between 1978 and 1983, the interior ministry said, adding that he was one of the most wanted ETA activists.

ETA has killed more than 800 people since 1968 to press its demands for an independent state in Basque areas of northern Spain and southwestern France.

(Additional reporting by Jesus Aguado)."	4	5	3	5	1	0			3.5	5
229	Spain	2009	86	Political	"MADRID, Oct 22 (Reuters) - Spain's trade deficit fell 40.5 percent in August compared to the gap a year in the same month a year earlier, as a slump in imports easily outpaced declining exports, the Industry Ministry said on Thursday.

Imports fell 26 percent to 14.6 billion euros ($21.86 billion) while exports slipped by 16.9 percent to 10.1 billion euros, leaving the deficit at 4.52 billion euros, the ministry said in a news release.
 
TD 
 Spain's imports have fallen hard as domestic consumption has been hit disproportionately by the recession, as the easy credit which sustained a construction boom vanished with the financial crisis.

Spain's trade deficit fell 52.4 percent in the first eight months of the year to 31.9 billion euros, the ministry said.

The trade deficit is the main component of a current account shortfall which at one stage reached about 10 percent of Spain's gross domestic product. (Reporting by Jason Webb)
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
294	Spain	2009	88	Political	"MADRID, Oct 19 (Reuters) - Environmental group Greenpeace says it took legal action on Friday against the government and the nuclear regulator for alleged delays in setting up a panel on nuclear safety with public participation.

A Greenpeace statement said legislation provided for the Nuclear Safety Advisory Committee to be constituted by August 2008 in order to issue non-binding recommendations to the Nuclear Safety Council (CSN) watchdog.

Some 20 people are due to sit on the committee, including representatives from central and local government, utilities, unions, environmental groups and technical experts.

""By stalling over the creation of the Advisory Committee, the industry minister and president of the CSN have in fact prevented environmental groups from getting relevant first-hand information on safety problems,"" Greenpeace spokesman Carlos Bravo said.

Greenpeace want more information over a CSN ruling in June, which favoured allowing the ageing Garona nuclear plant to run for another 10 years. The environmentalists say Garona had failed to implement some of the CSN's prior recommendations.

The government opted to renew Garona's operating permit for four years, which drew an appeal from the plant's operators, who want it to run until at least 2019.

Greenpeace also charge the watchdog with delays last year in taking action over a radioactive leak at the Asco I nuclear power station.

The government fined Asco I's operators 15.4 million euros ($23 million) in May for breaching safety rules.

Spain's eight nuclear plants provide about 20 percent of the country's electricity and the government has vowed to phase them out in favour of booming renewable energy sources.

Apart from Garona, however, the government has no plans to close any other nuclear plants in the near future. The remaining plants are not due to complete the 40-year lifespans they were designed for until 2020, at the earliest.

Nuclear power is unpopular in Spain and both major parties ruled out building new reactors in elections last year. The opposition Popular Party has since said it will keep Garona open past 2013 if it is returned to power. (Reporting by Martin Roberts; editing by Sue Thomas)"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
417	Spain	1995	91	Corporate	"MADRID, June 2 (Reuter) - Banco Santander said it raised prime rate 75 basis points to 9.25 percent, effective immediately.

The move followed the Bank of Spain's decision to reject bids at its earlier regular repo tender and call a new one with a minimum 9.25 percent rate, up from 8.5 percent.

TD 

(c) Reuters Limited 1995"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
479	Spain	1994	92	Corporate	"MADRID, Nov 21 (Reuter) - Spanish flag carrier Iberia said its passenger load factor (percentage of seats filled) rose to 73.7 in October from 73.4 percent in September.

It flew 1.22 million passengers and 2.0 billion revenue passenger kms in the month, compared with 1.24 million passengers and 2.14 kms the previous month.

TD 

Freight tonne kms rose to 60.2 million from 51.9 million. -- Madrid newsroom 34-1 585 2161

(c) Reuters Limited 1994"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
142	Spain	1991	99	Corporate	"MADRID, Oct 1, Reuter - Assurances Generales de France has agreed to buy about four pct of La Corporacion Banesto SA, a private industrial group owned by Banco Espanol de Credito SA-Banesto, for nine billion pesetas, Banesto said. 

Under an agreement, signed in Madrid by Banesto chairman Mario Conde and AGF chairman Michel Albert and ratifying an understanding reached in May, AGF will also acquire 45 pct in an insurance holding company with La Corporacion holding the rest. La Corporacion will provide 52.6 pct of shares in insurance affiliate La Union y el Fenix SA as its contribution to the new holding company's capital. 
 
TD 
 The agreement also contemplates an exchange of shareholdings between Banesto and AGF equivalent to about two pct of the bank's capital. 

Banesto said the agreement will not show up in its profit and loss accounts but in those of La Corporacion, at present 71 pct owned by the bank. 

Albert told a news conference in May the deal represented a total investment of 2.5 billion FFR for AGF. 
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
90	Sweden	2004	1	Corporate	"STOCKHOLM, Dec 29 (Reuters) - Sweden's 11 nuclear power reactors produced a record 75 terawatt hours (TWh) of electricity in 2004, the Swedish energy industry association said on Wednesday. 

Nuclear power production increased from 65.5 TWh in 2003, the association said in a statement. 
 
TD 
 The government has decided to gradually phase out nuclear power, which covers just over half of Sweden's electricity consumption. One atomic reactor is to be closed in May 2005. 

Sweden's hydropower output totalled 59 TWh this year, up from 53 TWh in 2003 but around 10 percent below normal levels. Windpower-generated electricity production grew 19 percent to 0.75 TWh. 

Overall, Swedish electricity production increased 12 percent year-on-year to 148 TWh, the association said. Domestic electricity consumption grew 0.5 percent to 146 TWh. 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
183	Sweden	2009	2	Corporate	"STOCKHOLM, Dec 22 (Reuters) - Sweden's prime minister said on Tuesday his centre-right government would be willing to sell a minority stake in power group Vattenfall [VATN.UL], one of Europe's biggest energy firms, if it wins an election next year.

""We concluded even before the last election that it would be good to bring in a minority owner who could contribute skills and capital and balance out some of the problems with having the state as the sole owner,"" Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt said in an interview in daily Dagens Industri.
 
TD 
 The government launched the country's biggest ever privatisation programme when it took power in 2006, selling part of its stake in telecoms firm TeliaSonera , Absolut Vodka maker Vin & Sprit , real estate firm Vasakronan and part of monopoly pharmacy chain Apoteket.

It still has stakes in over 50 companies, but the recent global downturn put on ice plans for further sales, including a near 20 percent stake in banking group Nordea .

Reinfeldt gave no time frame for a sale of part of Vattenfall, should the government win the popular vote next September, but he ruled out a complete sale.

""It is not a perfect market and we are talking about a great deal of value,"" he said. ""We have to be responible as politicians and owners and so it would be a gradual change.""
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
221	Sweden	2003	2	Political	"STOCKHOLM, Dec 18 (Reuters) - A Swedish prosecutor said on Thursday that the DNA of the man suspected of killing Foreign Minister Anna Lindh in September had been found on the murder weapon, a knife, and a discarded pair of bloodstained trousers. 

It was the first time a legal official had made public any of the evidence in a crime that shocked the nation - the stabbing of Lindh, a mother of two tipped to be the next prime minister, in a Stockholm department store on September 10. 
 
TD 
 Asked by Swedish public service SR radio news about earlier leaked reports that the suspect's DNA had been found on the knife dropped by the fleeing killer, and on a pair of bloody trousers found elsewhere, prosecutor Agneta Blidberg said ""Yes."" 

""There is DNA on the knife and there is DNA also on a pair of trousers,"" Blidberg told SR. ""When you add up all the evidence the case is strong,"" she added. 

The prosecution will hand the evidence to suspect Mijailo Mijailovic's defence lawyer, an official at Blidberg's office told Reuters. Mijailovic, who has said he is innocent, has until January 8 to respond. 

If the prosecution formally charges Mijailovic with the killing by January 16, the trial could begin on January 20, according to a tentative timetable outlined by Stockholm district court judge Goran Nilsson. 

Nilsson has said he expects the trial to last between three and six days. 

Lindh's brutal killing evoked memories of the 1986 assassination of Swedish Prime Minister Olof Palme who, like her, was killed while out on foot without bodyguards. 

Police arrested Mijailovic on September 24. He was born in Sweden in 1978 to Serbian immigrant parents and spent a few years at school in their homeland, identified in Swedish court documents as ""the former Yugoslavia"". 
 
"	5	4	5	5	0	-1			5	4.5
467	Sweden	1995	4	Political	"STOCKHOLM, Dec 28 (Reuter) - Following are some of the leading stories in the Swedish papers this morning. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.

DAGENS NYHETER

TD 

- The Swedish nurses' strike, now in its sixth week, has turned into a war of attrition. Employers and unions are unwilling to come to the negotiating table, and government authorities say risks to some patients have increased.

- The Christmas holiday proved chaotic for suppliers of this year's most popular Christmas present -- a multi-media computer. The special helplines set up to help frustrated parents and children over the holiday were flooded with queries.

SVENSKA DAGBLADET

- Former chief of defence staffs Bengt Gustavsson says the Swedish navy has credible eye-witness evidence from former Russian servicemen that Soviet submarines violated Swedish territorial waters in the 1980s.

- The Swedish trade union federation LO rejects a report calling for shorter working hourse as a method of reducing unemployment, saying general welfare must be guaranteed first.

DAGENS INDUSTRI

- Stricter accounting and capital coverage rules come into effect for banks and stockbrokers at the turn of the year, and finance inspectorate chief Claes Norgren says market players must show they can live up to the tougher rules.

- Russian shares offer the investement opportunity of a lifetime, but the inherent economic and political risks in the country mean that investors must have nerves of steel.

(c) Reuters Limited 1995"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
106	Sweden	1998	5	Political	"STOCKHOLM, Dec 22 (Reuters) - Police evacuated hundreds of holiday shoppers from a department store in central Stockholm on Tuesday after a drunk man set the building on fire. 

Police said the man, a petty criminal, had been seized after witnesses saw him dump petrol on a parking level below the PUB department store, and start a fire. 
 
TD 
 Windows shattered and people rushed for the exits as flames leapt up near a central escalator in the seven-storey building, witnesses said. 

""People were shouting 'What's happening?', and some were crying - probably shocked shop assistants,"" said Lee Englund, an eyewitness. 

""People were rushing out of the building,"" she said. ""When I looked back you could no longer see the centre of the store because it was filled with so much black smoke."" 

Two women were taken to hospital, one suffering from smoke inhalation and the other injured by broken glass. 

Police said two floors had been damaged by water from sprinklers, besides damage from the fire below. But the shop may re-open by Wednesday afternoon for one of the busiest shopping days of the year. 

The store's best known employee was Greta Garbo, who worked there for two years as a teenage salesgirl and hat model before she was discovered by a talent agent and went on to become a Hollywood star. 

(C) Reuters Limited 1998. 
 

NS  
gcat : Political/General News | gdis : Disasters/Accidents | grisk : Risk News 

RE  
eurz : Europe | scandz : Scandinavia | swed : Sweden | weurz : Western Europe 

AN  
Document lba0000020010926ducm020ck 
"	3	1	3	1	0	0		1	3	1
320	Sweden	2008	11	Political	"STOCKHOLM, Dec 2 (Reuters) - Sweden's industry minister said on Tuesday governments should avoid taking part in any European auto sector consolidation and questioned whether Sweden could be a good owner for ailing car units Volvo and Saab.

Maud Olofsson, in an interview with Reuters, said she did not want to say how Sweden might respond if Ford failed to sell its Volvo Cars unit, or if General Motors were to try to sell its Saab unit and could not.

TD 

""I will not speculate on such matters,"" Olofsson said.

But the minister questioned the wisdom of the state owning either Volvo or Saab.

""What reason is there to believe that the state would be an owner that, to begin with, would be able to reduce deficits in these companies, that we would be able to develop new models, and be able market them?,"" she said.

The two subsidiaries have suffered sharp sales declines in recent months as the global financial crisis has weighed on prospective car buyers across the world.

Their owners are pushing for a bailout from the U.S. government and Ford this week announced its intent to sell Volvo, which it bought in 1999. Sweden has said it held talks with both GM and Ford about the two units.

Olofsson said European states should cooperate to foster a better market climate for fuel-efficient cars that are friendlier for the environment, but not actively take part in changing ownership structures.

""That is not primarily a political mission but something for the companies to solve themselves,"" Olofsson said.

""What we can do is to create conditions for a good development when it comes to the auto industry. That could be research and development, or to create market conditions that encourages Europe's consumers to change vehicles.""

Detroit's three big automakers -- Ford, GM and Chrysler [CBS.UL] -- are due to submit extensive restructuring plans to the U.S. Congress later on Tuesday before lawmakers reopen debate on a $25 billion bailout the industry says it needs to survive. (Editing by David Cowell)"	4	1	3	1	1	0			3.5	1
465	Sweden	2006	15	Political	"STOCKHOLM, Dec 14 (Reuters Life!) - After years of ridicule the inhabitants of the Swedish village of Fjuckby have had enough.

Tired of the mirth caused by the name of their tiny hamlet, a number of Fjuckby residents have handed in an application to Swedish authorities for a small change that could make a big difference by becoming Fjukeby.

TD 

""The word 'Fjuckby' today appears to spontaneously and repeatedly lead to associations concerning certain carnal activities between people and between animals,"" the residents wrote in their plea to the Surveyors Office.

""This regrettable fact breeds feelings of weariness, embarrassment and conditioned shame among the residents...""

Annette Torensjo at the Swedish surveyors' office, in charge of deciding on the matter, said name changes were granted only rarely, though another village changed its name from Krakanger, literally meaning ""vomit regret,"" in the 1950s."	1	1	2	1	1	0			1.5	1
489	Sweden	2005	15	Political	"STOCKHOLM, Dec 19 (Reuters) - Sweden said on Monday that it would withhold 65 million Swedish crowns ($8.22 million) in budget support aid from Uganda due to problems with the development of democracy.

Such problems have included the arrest of Ugandan opposition leader Kizza Besigye, although a Swedish Foreign Ministry statement did not mention him by name. Of the aid, some 25 million crowns will instead be used for disaster relief in wartorn northern Uganda.

TD 

The Netherlands also recently decided to withhold aid from Uganda amounting to 6 million euros.

Swedish Minister for International Development Cooperation Carin Jamtin said the Nordic state would carefully monitor elections at the start of 2006 and make a new evaluation of the situation in Uganda.

""I hope the Ugandan government will resume work for a pluralistic political system. This will be of major importance when we discuss a new cooperation strategy during the coming year,"" Jamtin added.

Besigye has been charged with treason and his trial opened on Monday. He denied the charges. The trial could determine whether he will be able to campaign in person for elections scheduled for Feb. 23.

Sweden has this year paid some 280 million crowns to Uganda, an official at the Foreign Ministry said.

The rate of payment has been about 250 million crowns a year over the last six or seven years."	1	5	1	4	0	1			1	4.5
30	Sweden	1993	16	Corporate	"STOCKHOLM, Dec 22 (Reuter) - Home Holdings Inc, in which Sweden's Trygg-Hansa SPP Holding is the largest shareholder, said it had placed $280 million of senior notes due 1998 and 2203, completing a major financial recapitalisation. 

In a statement released by Trygg-Hansa, Home Holdings said the $280 million of senior notes were rated investment grade by Standard & Poor's and Moody's. 
 
TD 
 Home announced on December 15 the completion of an equity offering in which the company issued new shares of common stock for $17 per share. A total of $127.5 million was raised from public shareholders. 

Trygg-Hansa exchanged $163 million of existing debt to equity, in addition to a previously announced conversion of preferred stock. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
399	Sweden	1997	19	Corporate	"STOCKHOLM, Dec 19 (Reuters) - Sweden's Scandic Hotels said on Friday it was buying Finnish hotel chain Arctia for 783 million crowns ($101 million).

Scandic said it would pay with a new issue of 4.25 million shares, representing 20 percent of votes and capital in Scandic.

TD 

The acquisition is expected to have a positive effect on results and profit per share in 1998 and 1999, it said.

""Scandic Hotels' financial position will be strengthened through the deal which increases the possibility of further expansion,"" it said in a statement.

The deal includes all of Arctia's 22 hotels and 25 restaurants with annual turnover of 1.38 billion crowns.

Investment group Ratos will remain majority shareholder in Scandic with 23.2 percent of capital and voting rights after the deal. Finland's Alko-Bolagen, from whom Scandic is buying the hotels, will become second largest owner with 20 percent of capital and votes. ($ = 7.749 Swedish Crowns) 190734 GMT dec 97

(c) Reuters Limited 1997"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
95	Sweden	2006	24	Political	"STOCKHOLM, Dec 11 (Reuters) - Sweden's jobless rate fell to 3.7 percent in November from 4.0 percent in October, its lowest in more than four years, the AMS labour board said on Monday. 
 
TD 
 The figures underline an improving trend in the job market in Sweden, which has lagged a soaring economy as companies have boosted productivity rather than take on new workers. The labour market has also added to pressure for further rate hikes. 

The labour office said the total of unemployed and those in government labour market programmes was 6.9 percent, down by 40,000 people versus the same month last year. 

""It (the jobless rate) came in a little lower than expected. We had reckoned on 3.8 percent,"" Johan Javeus, analyst at SEB. 

""The figures are in line with the other signals from the job market -- that there is a continued strengthening. We also think there will be a fall (in the unemployment figure) from the Statistics Bureau on Thursday."" 

The number of vacant jobs notified to the labour board was 53,000 in November, 20,000 more than the same month last year. 

The central bank has already raised interest rates five times this year and evidence of further improvement in the job market is likely to add to its determination to bring monetary policy onto a less expansive track before inflation -- still well below the 2.0 percent target -- picks up. 

The central bank meets on Thursday with its decision on interest rates to be announced the following day. Analysts expect it to raise rates by 25 basis points to 3.0 percent. 

AMS data is based on the number of registered jobless while statistics office SCB, due to publish November unemployment on Dec. 14, bases its data on a survey. 

A Reuters poll has forecast unemployment as measured by the Statistics Bureau to be 4.4 percent in November, down from 4.6 percent in October. 

Next year, unemployment is seen rising again despite strong job growth as the new centre-right government plans to cut back on state labour schemes and more first-time job seekers will enter the labour force. (Additional reporting by Johan Sennerro) 
 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
13	Sweden	1998	26	Corporate	"STOCKHOLM, Dec 21 (Reuters) - Swedish bond yields outperformed German Bunds on Monday in a market with limited interest, dealers said. 

""It has been very quiet today but we have seen some interest for Sweden,"" one dealer said. 
 
TD 
 U.S. bond yields rose heavily on Monday after selling by hedge funds and a stock market rally, despite President Bill Clinton's impeachment, while German yields remained stable. 

""It will be interesting to see if rising U.S. yields will have an effect on European yields,"" an analyst said. 

The market was waiting for the policy-making U.S. Federal Reserve's FOMC meeting on Tuesday, but no rate cut is expected. Market focus was also the European Central Bank meeting which will determine the first euro repo rate and the interest rate corridor. 

Swedish current account for October is due on Tuesday at 1100 GMT and expected to show a surplus of 5.7 billion crowns. Swedish Producer Prices for November are due on Wednesday 0900 GMT are expected to fall 0.1 percent month-on-month. 

The crown was unchanged to the mark after a day of thin trading. 

""We are staying in the lower part of the range of 4.80 to 4.85 to the mark. If we break 4.80 tonight the crown might leave its weakening trend,"" one dealer said. ((Johan Wullt, Stockholm newsroom, +46-8-700 1005, fax +46-8-211601, stockholm.newsroom@reuters.com)). 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
231	Sweden	1997	26	Corporate	"STOCKHOLM, Dec 12 (Reuters) - A dispute between Carlsberg and Scottish & Newcastle , triggered by a bid from Danish brewer for the British one, could take six months or more to resolve, the arbitrator handling the case said. 

Scottish & Newcastle (S&N) has rejected a 7.3 billion pound ($14.9 billion) joint bid from Carlsberg and Amsterdam-based Heineken , and has asked an arbitration court in Sweden to judge whether the approach breaches an agreement with Carlsberg over their Russia-based Baltic Beverages Holding (BBH) joint venture. 
 
TD 
 Ulf Franke, Secretary General of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce Arbitration Institute, said that in general, rulings in such cases take up to six months. 

""The aim is to finalise the case within this time limit,"" he said. ""But this could be extended in large and complex cases."" 

Franke declined to comment on the S&N and Carlsberg dispute, but added about half of cases are resolved within six months. 

S&N has taken its case to the Swedish arbitration tribunal as the BBH agreement is drafted under Swedish law, and claims that the bid approach breaks the terms of the BBH venture, effectively triggering a so-called shotgun agreement that allows either party to make an offer to buy the other out of BBH. 

Franke said rulings by the Institute are binding. 

""Only if there are some serious procedural deficits, then you can go to court and have the ruling set aside, not on the merits of the ruling,"" he said. 

S&N intends to announce in early January details of its legal argument, and said that when a chairman was appointed for the tribunal earlier this month this suggested that a decision would be expected before the end of June, 2008. 

However, Carlsberg believe the process may take longer, and Finn Madsen from law firm Vinge, which is representing Carlsberg's unit Pripps-Ringnes on the BBH arbitration, said the case could take over a year. 

""An arbitration of this nature will take at least 12 months from when the case has been referred to the Arbitration Tribunal - probably in the beginning of January 2008,"" said Madsen. 

""According to the Stockholm Arbitration Institute itself, an average case takes between 8-10 months from such referral. And this is for sure not an average case,"" he added. 

BBH is at the centre of the battle for control of S&N as it holds more than 85 percent of Baltika the biggest brewer in Russia, the world's third-largest beer market. 

The rapidly growing BBH, which operates in Russia and other nations in the former Soviet Union, accounts for around one-third of S&N and Carlsberg's group earnings. 

S&N shares were off 1.1 percent at 732 pence by 1515 GMT, below the cash bid price of 750p from Carlsberg and Heineken, while Carlsberg shares were up 0.9 percent at 643 crowns. (Additional reporting by David Jones in London; Editing by Andrew Callus) 
 
"	1	3	1	4	0	-1			1	3.5
305	Sweden	1994	28	Corporate	"STOCKHOLM, Dec 21 (Reuter) - Swiss-Swedish engineering group ABB Asea Brown Boveri has won an order for 75 subway carriages from publicly owned Stockholm local traffic SL worth 1.8 billion crowns, SL said in a statement.

""The contract with ABB also has an option for the delivery of a further up to 125 carriages of the same type,"" it said.

TD 

""If this option is used fully, the investment -- including SL's own consequent investment -- increases by a further 2.4 billion crowns,"" it added.

-- Stockholm newsroom, +46-8 700 1017

(c) Reuters Limited 1994"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
89	Sweden	1994	40	Corporate	"STOCKHOLM, Dec 12 (Reuter) - Swedish chemical concern Perstorp AB said it will invest 400 million crowns over a two-year period to strengthen the global position of its Specialty Chemicals division. 

Perstorp said it will build two new factories in Sweden to increase production of polyalcohols, used as a binding component in paints, grease and pigments. 
 
TD 
 Ake Fredriksson, head of Perstorp's Specialty Chemicals division, said strong growth in demand for binding agents in paints, glues and grease was the reason for the investment. 

""We are also experiencing considerably stronger growth from NAFTA countries and Asia,"" he said. 

Perstorp Specialty Chemicals had turnover in 1993 of almost two billion crowns and has operations in Sweden, the U.S. and Italy. -- Stockholm newsroom (46 8 700 1004) 

 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
456	Sweden	1997	45	Corporate	"STOCKHOLM, Dec 17 (Reuters) - Ferry operator Stena Line said on Wednesday it plans to restructure its ferry operations into seven divisions, giving cost savings of around 350 million crowns.

Stena said around 450 jobs would be lost, although neither of its cross-channel routes would be affected as these are involved in the cooperation accord with P&O on cross channel ferries.

TD 

(c) Reuters Limited 1997"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
301	Sweden	1999	55	Political	"STOCKHOLM, Nov 25 (Reuters) - Sweden's foreign minister said on Thursday she had received positive signals from Turkey on human rights but many issues need to be resolved before Sweden could welcome Turkey as a candidate for EU membership.

Anna Lindh met her Turkish counterpart Ismail Cem in Stockholm on Thursday ahead of the European Union summit in Finland next month where Turkey hopes to named a formal candidate - if Greece and Sweden drop objections.

TD 

""We have received some positive signals today and we will now see what they mean and what else happens before Helsinki,"" Lindh told a news conference. ""We expect to see positive signals from Turkey ahead of Helsinki.""

Sweden has been in the forefront of EU efforts to make Turkey improve its human rights record, while Greece has a history of bad relations with Turkey over the divided island of Cyprus and territorial claims in the Aegean.

Lindh said it was a setback that the Turkish appeals court had decided on Thursday to uphold the death sentence on condemned Kurdish leader Abdullah Ocalan.

""It would be very serious if the Turkish parliament approved this death penalty verdict,"" Lindh said. ""But I don't think that will happen.""

Lindh said Turkey had given some positive signs about improving the situation of the Kurds in Turkey, such as legislation against torture and to encourage the teaching of Kurdish in schools.

She said Sweden had not issued any formal demands to Turkey, but that she had explained to Cem the issues that Sweden considered important, especially freedom of speech, the situation of the Kurds in Turkey and torture.

""Everyone wants Turkey to become an EU candidate country, but it's also up to Turkey which signals they are ready to give ahead of the Helsinki meeting,"" Lindh said.

(C) Reuters Limited 1999."	5	4	5	3	0	1		1	5	3.5
16	Sweden	1992	63	Political	" STOCKHOLM, Dec 3, Reuter - A light aircraft crashed in flames into an apartment building after taking off from Stockholm city airport on Thursday, killing all three people on board, police said. 

The Piper Malibu apparently tried to crash-land on a road after its single engine cut out, but the plane collided with a parked car, burst into flames and hit an apartment building close to a school, witnesses said. 
 
TD 
 ""We have recovered the three bodies. Nobody on the ground was hurt,"" said police spokesman Ola Karlsson, adding that the three were Swedish men aged 45, 27 and 23 on a business trip to Britain. 

The plane left Bromma city airport at 7.03 a.m. (0603 GMT), lost radio contact with ground control two minutes later, and while trying to return to the airport suddenly lost power and hurtled to the ground, Karlsson said. 

Witnesses reported hearing the Piper's engine drone louder as it approached, then sputter to a halt. The plane skirted the rooftops, hit a parked car and skidded in a ball of fire into the ground floor of an apartment block. 

One wing was thrown 75 metres (yards) from the fuselage, which burnt out only 50 metres (yards) away from a school where teachers were preparing for the arrival of some 600 pupils. 

Karlsson said smoke billowed into the block of flats and several windows were smashed by the impact but the building itself did not catch fire. 

The accident fuelled debate in Europe over the safety aspects of airports near residential areas, Swedish Radio said. Only two months ago, an El Al Boeing 747 cargo plane hit an apartment building in Amsterdam killing at least 50 people. 

Arlanda airport 40 km (25 miles) north of Stockholm carries most of the capital's air traffic, but some politicians want to increase traffic to and from Bromma instead of building a new airport south of Stockholm. 

""There is certainly a political aspect. Today's accident was strangely similar to the one in Amsterdam. Both planes took off, ran into trouble and tried to get back and crashed into buildings,"" said Karlsson. 

Transport Minister Mats Odell said Sweden's national accident commission had opened an inquiry into Thursday's crash. 

 
"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
366	Sweden	2001	64	Corporate	"STOCKHOLM, Nov 27 (Reuters) - The Nordic region's biggest telecoms operator, Sweden's Telia, and Finnish peer Elisa Communications are selling 40 million shares in Swedish directory firm Eniro, investment banks said.

The sale, organised by Morgan Stanley, UBS Warburg and Carnegie is through an accelerated book building process which ends on Wednesday when the sale price will be decided.

TD 

The 40 million shares represent 24.4 percent of Eniro's share capital. Telia had placed 32.65 million Eniro shares on offer and Elisa 7.35 million.

The sale of the Eniro share will bring down Telia's holding in Eniro, once a Telia subsidiary, to 5.6 percent from 25.5 percent before the operation.

At 1225 GMT Eniro shares traded eight percent up on a mildly positive Stockholm bourse at a one-week high of 73.5 crowns.

""This sale is seen as positive by the market which has been uneasy about Telia's ownership of Eniro for some time. A less concentrated ownership structure may help Eniro,"" a Swedish broker said.

Telia traded 0.2 percent firmer and Elisa 1.7 percent weaker with the Stoxx telecoms index flat.

""We have said before that Eniro is not a strategic asset for Telia and that is still valid,"" Telia spokesman Lars Bilstrom said.

As the book building was not over yet, Elisa, which has a total of 12.3 million shares, or seven percent of Eniro, declined to comment.

""We have not made a decision to sell (the Eniro shares)...we have not sold a single share,"" said Vesa Sahivirta, Elisa's investor relations chief.

Eniro, the Nordic region's biggest directory company, was carved out of Telia in the middle of last year. It said in October it was hunting for acquisitions in Europe, but was also ready to be taken over by someone else.

Earlier this year Eniro attracted a 3.0 billion euro mostly paper bid from Italian competitor Seat Pagine Gialle. Telia, then owner of 49 percent of Eniro, rejected the bid.

In September Eniro bought the directories unit of Elisa and in November it acquired the biggest Nordic Internet portal Scandinavia Online. (Additional reporting by Anna Peltola in Helsinki and Kim McLaughlin in Stockholm)."	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
204	Sweden	2008	77	Corporate	"STOCKHOLM, May 23 (Reuters) - Compressor and machinery maker Atlas Copco said on Friday it had acquired two U.S. distributors of its products for an undisclosed sum. Atlas Copco said in a statement it had bought Gulf Atlantic Equipment Company, Florida, and Compressed Air Products, Georgia.

The two companies, which have about 60 employees in total, have been ""successful"" distributors of Atlas Copco compressors for many years, Atlas said.
 
TD 
 (Reporting by Stockholm Newsroom)
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
377	Sweden	2002	77	Corporate	"	
STOCKHOLM, Nov 21 (Reuters) - Loss-making Swedish telecoms equipment company Ericsson could replace its chief executive next year in a looming reshuffle of top management and its board, its chairman said on Thursday.

Michael Treschow said he had begun considering the issue of the succession to Chief Executive Kurt Hellstrom, whose contract gives him the possibility of retiring when he turns 60 in December next year.

TD 

Hellstrom, who formally became chief executive at the start of 2001 after two years as president, has been blamed by local media and some analysts for what was seen as Telefon AB LM Ericsson's slow initial reaction to growing competition, allowing the firm to grow too fat, and for the demise of its handset division.

""Hellstrom has indicated earlier that turning the company around and making it profitable again could be his last job at Ericsson, so his eventual departure would not come as a great surprise to the market,"" a Swedish analyst said.

""Kurt will be 60 next year and, naturally, I have begun thinking about it (the succession),"" Treschow said. ""When Kurt is 60 we must have a solution.""

Hellstrom, appointed president in 1999 after heading Ericsson's key systems business, is seen as a brilliant salesman but was less successful at managing the troubled group.

The world's biggest producer of mobile networks, Ericsson once boasted double-digit operating margins and soaring profits, but plunged deep into the red in 2001 as operators put investment on hold amid a global economic slowdown.

It will have cut staff to below 60,000 by the end of 2003 from 107,000 in 2001 to return to profit. It also tapped shareholders' pockets for $3.2 billion in Sweden's biggest rights issue in September to see it through the slump in demand.

There was no clear reaction from Ericsson investors, with the shares traded seven percent higher along with the sector on Thursday. Ericsson shares have fallen 83 percent so far this year while shares in its more nimble Finnish competitor Nokia Oyj have lost only 34 percent.

Senior Ericsson sources said the new chief executive was likely to be appointed from within Ericsson's ranks.

Treschow would not name any potential successors, but the sources said Chief Operating Officer Per Arne Sandstrom was a strong candidate, with another possibility being the head of the systems unit, Bert Nordberg.

BOARD CHANGES

Treschow also said the committee which nominates board members was working to propose a stronger line-up for next year's annual meeting.

The changes would mark a clear change of guard at Ericsson after former CEO Lars Ramqvist stepped down earlier this year as chairman, and Deputy Chairman Tom Hedelius, on the board for 11 years, said on Tuesday he would quit in 2003.

Hedelius is the chairman of Industrivarden, the investment vehicle of Sweden's Handelsbanken group, which controls 41.4 percent of votes in Ericsson.

Treschow told reporters the company would find a replacement to fill the role occupied by Hedelius and that there could be a broader reshuffle at senior level.

Some fund managers said Hedelius' decision could be related to a discussion between major Ericsson shareholders about raising the voting power a hundredfold of the widely traded B-series shares to one tenth of the vote of an A-share.

Hedelius is seen as a strong supporter of the existing share structure arrangement, but Treschow said on Thursday his departure from the board was not related to the issue.

Fund managers with large stakes in Ericsson said they expected two or three new people to join the Ericsson board in 2003, probably with close ties to large telecoms operators.

One fund manager said the market was speculating that among those to go could be board member Peter Sutherland, the chairman of Goldman Sachs. (Additional reporting by Jan Strupczewski in Stockholm)."	1	5	1	4	0	1			1	4.5
368	Sweden	1999	79	Political	"STOCKHOLM, Nov 5 (Reuters) - A Swedish court set a precedent on Friday by awarding damages to a student who was so mercilessly bullied for being an ""outsider"" that she dropped out of high school and left town.

Johanna Rosenqvist, now 21, won 125,000 Swedish Crowns ($15,000) compensation for lost education and 179,000 crowns in legal costs from the Grums local authority.

TD 

Karlstad district court agreed that the school, Jattestensskolan, had not done enough to stop the bullying.

Rosenqvist's lawyer said the case could lead to other suits.

""It gives other bullied pupils the right to hold their local authorities responsible,"" Ola Stervin said.

Rosenqvist's nightmare began in 1992 when she was 13 and moved to the school in Grums, 280 kms (170 miles) west of Stockholm. She was quickly picked on.

The constant bullying made her ill, physically and mentally, and she took more and more time off.

""I had gastritis, migraines and depression,"" Rosenqvist told her local newspaper during the court case.

""I was an outsider from the first day. Every time they saw me in the corridor they picked on me, said I smelled and was stupid and that I was ugly,"" Rosenqvist told the court.

By spring 1995 she could take it no longer. She dropped out of school and her family moved 50 kms (30 miles) to Arvika.

She plans to go back to school next year to complete her education.

She had sought 671,000 crowns ($80,000) compensation.

""This was totally unexpected. We are shocked,"" said Anna Gustafsson, Grums local authority lawyer. ""We thought we would win as the school had taken a lot of measures to help the girl.""

(C) Reuters Limited 1999."	5	1	5	1	0	0			5	1
315	Sweden	1992	89	Political	"STOCKHOLM, Nov 15, Reuter - Three days before the Swedish parliament holds a key vote on Europe, an opinion poll on Sunday confirmed growing opposition among voters to full membership of the European Community (EC).

Sweden's single-chamber Riksdag is due to vote on Wednesday on ratification of the European Economic Area (EEA), a crucial step towards full EC membership which the Swedish government is seeking.

TD 

The EEA will bring the EC and European Free Trade Association (EFTA) together in a giant market of 380 million consumers.

According to the Temo survey published in the daily Dagens Nyheter, women who fear a continued erosion of Sweden's once legendary welfare state are noticeably more sceptical about Europe than men.

Temo said that in October, opponents of the EC leapt to 43 per cent from 38 per cent in April-May. Supporters dwindled to 35 per cent from the previous 39 per cent.

The findings confirmed a trend reported two weeks ago by Sifo, another polling institute, which showed that 53 per cent of Swedish voters would now say ""no"" to EC membership, up from 45 per cent in September.

Sifo's poll, which showed only 30 per cent in favour of EC membership compared with 35 per cent in September, also said women had emerged as strongest opponents.

Although six out of seven parties represented in the Riksdag are officially in favour of joining the EC, which should ensure a safe majority for ratification, the latest polls showed growing opposition among the electorate.

Prime Minister Carl Bildt has promised to hold a referendum on EC membership by 1994.

Focusing on issues, the Temo survey said that regardless of how they would vote on the EC, Swedes believed that membership would bring greater opportunities to work and study abroad and cheaper alcohol.

Other advantages were lower food prices, more foreign investment in Sweden, stronger Swedish exports and greater influence abroad.

On the downside, Swedes feared the effects of tougher business competition and foresaw their farmers growing poorer, rising immigration, wider wage differentials, less welfare and sexual equality and higher unemployment.

(c) Reuters Limited"	1	2	2	2	1	0			1.5	2
194	Sweden	2000	95	Corporate	"STOCKHOLM, Dec 5 (Reuters) - Swedish partly privatised telecoms carrier Telia AB, which saw strong subscriber growth in the first six months of this year, plans to cut back customer growth in the fourth quarter, a senior company official said. 

""At the moment we are in a deliberate moderation phase because we got in such incredible numbers of customers,"" Kenneth Karlberg, deputy chief executive responsible for Telia's mobile business, told Reuters in an interview. 
 
TD 
 ""The big volume we have got so far was somewhat of a surprise. We have to calm things down a bit with volumes. It has been a little calmer in the third quarter and will be even calmer again in the fourth quarter, especially on the Swedish market."" 

Overall mobile phone penetration is currently about 70 percent in Sweden and over 70 percent in Finland and Norway, while it is just below 60 percent in Denmark. 

""We have quite violent growth in new customers. I would be a little surprised if we see the same growth next year as we have this, but this boost gives us an opportunity to grow into the customer volumes we need in Denmark and Finland,"" he said. 

Telia aims to reach 450,000-500,000 customers in the Danish and Finnish markets by 2002, compared with 279,000 in Denmark and 127,000 in Finland in September this year. 

""It's important to be there and take market share. Even if it costs us something now that is nothing compared with what it would cost to take market share later,"" he said. 

Karlberg declined to say whether Telia would fuel its mobile growth with acquisitions. 

""We are well prepared for Nordic acquisitions. That is why we were able to acquire Netcom ASA in Norway,"" he said. 

Telia's total mobile customers rose by 1.52 million in the first three quarters of this year, including 773,000 from Netcom ASA, to 4.36 million. 
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
497	Sweden	1994	97	Corporate	"STOCKHOLM, Nov 10 (Reuter) - Swedish vehicle maker AB Volvo is to study the possibility of setting up a car assembly plant in Manila in the Philippines, it said in its house magazine.

Olle Odsell, head of information at Volvo Car International said the company would investigate in 1995 whether conditions were right for assembling its new Volvo 850 model there.

TD 

He said it was not a question of a large investment. Volvo already has similar plants in Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia.

Swedish Newspapers have speculated that the company is also looking at possible plants in the U.S., China and Mexico.

--Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1006

(c) Reuters Limited 1994"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
481	Switzerland	2005	4	Political	"ZURICH, Dec 22 (Reuters) - Switzerland's non-farm payrolls rose by 0.1 percent year-on-year in the third quarter to 3.65 million, the Federal Statistics Office said on Thursday.

The data, compiled quarterly via a survey of Swiss companies, also showed the working population rose 0.1 percent to 4.20 million in the July to September period.

TD 

""The small rise is only due to the increase in the number of foreign workers,"" the Statistics office said. During the period there were 1 percent more foreigners working in Switzerland than a year earlier.

The index of vacancies rose 16.5 percent to 114.2 points while the outlook index remained steady at 1.01. The Swiss unemployment rate was steady at 3.7 percent in November, as indicators show a pick-up in Swiss growth is well under way."	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
91	Switzerland	2002	9	Corporate	"ZURICH, Dec 20 (Reuters) - Insurer Swiss Life said on Friday that Bruno Gehrig, currently vice-chairman of the Swiss National Bank, will become chairman from May 2003, replacing Andres Leuenberger who has already announced his departure. 

Gehrig will step down from the SNB as of June 2003, the statement said. No one was available for comment at the Swiss central bank. 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
400	Switzerland	2002	13	Corporate	"ZURICH, Dec 20 (Reuters) - Swiss International Air Lines (CROZn.S) said on Friday it had successfully concluded a 450-million-Swiss franc ($316 million) pre-financing deal with banks to fund the planned purchase of 12 Airbus (EAD.PA) A340 aircraft.

Swiss said the deal, which also includes a sale-and-leaseback scheme for seven of the firm's Embraer (EMBR4.SA) 145 jets, indicated that the banks were also interested in assuming longer-term financing of the new Airbus fleet."	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
43	Switzerland	1999	14	Political	"GENEVA, Dec 22 (Reuters) - A controversial Swiss-based Christian human rights group said on Wednesday it had bought the freedom of 5,514 more black African slaves in Sudan during a secret mission last week. 

In a statement, Christian Solidarity International (CSI) said the latest redemption of mainly women and children brought to 20,961 the number of slaves freed through its programme since 1995. 
 
TD 
 ""The slaves, mainly Christian and animist women and children from the Dinka tribe, were brought out of captivity in northern Sudan and returned to their homeland in the south by eight networks of Arab retrievers,"" the Zurich-based group said. 

CSI accuses the armed forces of Sudan's National Islamic Front, mainly its Popular Defence Force, of capturing Christians and animists in raids which it says are part of the regime's jihad, or Islamic holy war, against minorities who resist its policies of ""forced Islamisation and Arabisation"". 

CSI has come under fire for allegedly fuelling the slave trade. The head of the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund, Carol Bellamy, has said the practice ""encouraged more trafficking and criminality"". 

In October, a key U.N. body, the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC), withdrew CSI's accreditation because it had allowed Sudan rebel leader John Garang to address the human rights forum last March during speaking time allotted to it as a non-governmental organisation. 

The CSI statement said more than 100,000 people remain in bondage in northern Sudan as slaves or are ""subjected to slave-like practices in (the) Sudanese government's concentration camps - often euphemistically called 'peace camps' for the displaced"". 

CSI said it had paid Arab middlemen a fixed fee of 50,000 Sudanese pounds per slave in its latest operation. ""This amount currently has the local value of two goats, or $50,"" CSI said. 

""During the raids, villages are torched, men are shot dead, the elderly are beaten and abused, and women, children, cows, goats and food stores are captured as war booty,"" the group said. 

""The women and child slaves are forced to walk for days to the North. On the way, beatings, public executions and gang rape are commonplace. 

""In the North, the slaves are divided among their captors. They are routinely subjected to forced labour, sexual abuse - including female genital excision - forced Islamisation, beatings, death threats and racist verbal abuse and a meagre diet,"" it added. 

The Khartoum government denies slavery exists as such but says it is trying to stamp out abductions for forced labour. 

 
"	2	2	2	2	0	0			2	2
409	Switzerland	1994	20	Political	"ZURICH, Dec 12 (Reuter) - Switzerland's first official brothel will open in a converted Zurich office building after the town authorities granted a building permit to an entrepreneur, the Swiss news agency SDA said on Monday.

The three-story building, located under a highway close to the city centre, will have room for 12 prostitutes, who can rent the apartments on a daily or weekly basis.

TD 

Rents will be roughly similar to the cost of a medium-priced hotel, SDA said, adding the house would also include a room to administer first aid as well as a parlour.

A new Swiss law rules the operation of a brothel is no longer illegal.

It was not clear when the brothel would open for business.

(c) Reuters Limited 1994"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
168	Switzerland	2007	26	Corporate	"ZURICH, Dec 13 (Reuters) - Swiss pharmaceutical supplier Lonza Group on Wednesday said it had completed an alliance with Belgian drugs, chemicals and plastics maker Solvay , allowing Solvay to outsource some manufacturing. 
 
TD 
 ""Lonza will produce an important selection of Solvay's large volume APIs (active pharmaceutical ingredients),"" Lonza said in a statement. 

No financial details were disclosed. 

The deal will see ""exclusive synthesis"" for Solvay pharmaceutical products begin in late 2007, said Lonza spokesman Dominik Werner. 

Werner declined to comment on any financial impact the deal might have in 2007 and said the alliance was part of Lonza's ""daily business."" 

Basel, Switzerland-based Lonza is one of the world's biggest suppliers to the pharmaceutical, healthcare and life sciences industries, providing active ingredients to the biotechnology sector. 
 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
245	Switzerland	2000	33	Corporate	"ZURICH, Dec 20 (Reuters) - Andreas Hoefert, economist at UBS Warburg, was named ""Swiss Economic Indicator Forecaster of the Year"" by Reuters on Wednesday because of his accuracy in forecasting indicators in regular Reuters polls in 2000. 

Eight economists participated in the polls about consumer price inflation, unemployment and Gross Domestic Product (GDP). 
 
TD 
 The average scores were close. 

Hoefert averaged 8.77 points, while the lowest score was 7.38. The highest possible score was 10. 

The runners-up were Fabio Allesandrini of Lombard Odier and Bernard Lambert of Pictet & Cie, both in Geneva. 

The scoring system is based on the accuracy of the individual forecasts and the year's totals are divided by the number of times a forecaster participated. 

When the forecast is spot on, there are 10 points. Each 0.1 percent point difference either way leads to one point less and a forecaster who is 1.0 percent points off gets zero points. 

Hoefert participated 26 times out of 27 polls. 

Of the runners-up, Alessandrini had a higher average score at 8.42 compared to Lambert's 8.33, but Lambert participated all 27 times and Alessandrini took part in 19 polls. 

Reuters also held a few ad-hoc polls on the likelihood of SNB rate moves during the year, but these were not included in the points. 
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
415	Switzerland	2006	38	Political	"GENEVA, Dec 12 (Reuters) - The White House would be better placed to renew its soon-to-expire trade negotiating powers if there is a breakthrough in World Trade Organisation (WTO) talks, Deputy U.S. Trade Representative John Veroneau said on Tuesday.

Negotiations over a new WTO accord, launched in the Qatari capital in 2001, have been stalled since July, meaning the deal will not be clinched before U.S. President George W. Bush loses his Congressional trade promotion authority in July 2007.

TD 

Often a tough sell to Congress, Bush faces extra hurdles getting new fast-track powers -- which allow the White House to broker trade deals which are then voted on by Congress in their entirety -- after the Democratic sweep in November's election.

WTO chief Pascal Lamy has said that without the powers, it will be impossible to conclude the Doha round.

""Traction on Doha would be a meaningful asset to have in making the case for why new (trade protection) authority is necessary,"" Veroneau told journalists in Geneva.

Washington is willing to be more flexible in its offer on agricultural subsidies -- the issue that caused the multilateral talks to falter in July -- but will require its major trading partners to make more room for U.S. farm goods exports, he said.

He said that bilateral talks during the hiatus in high-level discussions on a trade deal, which have yet to restart despite the resumption of technical deliberations in Geneva, had been useful. He declined to comment on any negotiating shifts.

""We are moving in the right direction and it is too soon to tell if the gaps can be closed,"" he said, allowing that there may be further opportunities to reach an agreement if there is no major breakthrough in the comiong months.

""There is a window now that we should do everything we possibly can to take advantage of ... There may be other windows in the future,"" he said.

Regarding the U.S.-European Union dispute over airline subsidies at rivals Boeing and Airbus , Veroneau reiterated that Washington was ""open to a negotiated settlement"" but expected litigation to continue to run.

""Right now we are proceeding on the litigation path. I expect that path to continue,"" he said.

""We remain open to a negotiated settlement ... If the situation avails itself for us to explore possible ways forward to promote something then we are open to that."""	1	5	1	4	0	1			1	4.5
447	Switzerland	1995	41	Political	"GENEVA, Nov 30 (Reuter) - The European Free Trade Association (EFTA), pioneer of accords with Eastern Europe, will sign free trade treaties next month with the three Baltic states of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, EFTA said on Thursday.

The signing will come during a ministerial meeting of the grouping -- which now includes only Switzerland, Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein -- in the Swiss mountain resort of Zermatt on December 7-8, a spokesman told Reuters.

TD 

The spokesman said the grouping, founded in 1960 as a counterweight to then then European Economic Community, would also sign non-binding declarations on trade cooperation with Egypt, Morocco and Tunisia at the meeting.

The European Union and countries in North Africa and the Middle East held a meeting in Barcelona this week which ended with pledges to lift trade barriers and foster investment in pursuit of a free trade area by 2010.

""Our declarations, which will be our first with North African countries, are a demonstration that we are also ready to move quickly to expand links with Europe's Mediterranean neighbours,"" another EFTA official said.

The Geneva-based grouping lost three of its biggest members -- Austria, Finland and Sweden -- to the now 15-country EU from January this year.

Apart from Switzerland which rejected even partial ties with the EU in a referendum in December 1993, the other three EFTA members are linked to Brussels in the European Economic Area (EEA) -- a free trade and investment accord.

EFTA, which originally provided a shelter for neutral European countries barred from joining the bigger grouping during the Cold War, began to develop trade ties with the ex-Soviet bloc as soon as communism collapsed in 1989.

It already has free trade accords with the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary and Slovenia as well as with Turkey and Israel, and last year reached a cooperation agreement with Albania.

(c) Reuters Limited 1995"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
418	Switzerland	1990	43	Political	"ZURICH, Dec 8, Reuter - About 1,500 people demonstrated against high interest rates on Saturday outside the Zurich headquarters of the Swiss National Bank, the country's central bank.

The protesters denounced the bank's policy of fighting inflation with interest rates, currently eight to nine per cent, saying it led to higher home loan charges and rents.

TD 

Inflation was running at an annual 6.1 per cent in November and is not expected to fall substantially before spring 1991."	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
330	Switzerland	2007	44	Political	"ZURICH, Nov 28 (Reuters) - Switzerland is seeking to dissuade economic migrants from Cameroon and Nigeria with a bleak new television advert that depicts the life of freshly-arrived migrants in Europe as one fraught with problems and dangers.

The hard-hitting advert is part of a campaign by the International Organisation for Migration (IOM), funded by the Swiss Federal Office of Migration and the European Commission.

TD 

Jean-Philipppe Chauzy, a spokesman for Geneva-based IOM, said the advert was designed to dissuade potential migrants from making the often deadly trip to Europe via the inhospitable north African deserts or by sea in dangerously overloaded boats.

""We work with the governments of Nigeria, Cameroon and Switzerland to inform would-be migrants of the dangers of using smuggling networks and the realities of life as an undocumented migrant in Europe,"" he said.

The advert, which has already been shown in Nigeria, shows a father sitting in a comfortable-looking living room in Africa talking on the telephone to his son, who is standing in a storm-lashed pay-phone box somewhere in Europe.

As he reassures his father that life in Europe is okay, pictures flash on the screen showing him begging, sleeping rough and fleeing police officers.

Switzerland has contributed $150,000 to the campaign, which also included flyers and other forms of advertising, while the European Commission has given $5,000, Chauzy said.

Right-wing Swiss politician Christoph Blocher, whose portfolio as justice minister includes immigration, told the Swiss SonntagsBlick newspaper he supported the adverts. ""There is hardly anybody who has not seen pictures showing overcrowded vessels and people jettisoned into the sea by ruthless migrant smugglers,"" the Swiss Federal Office for Migration said in a statement on Wednesday. ""Pictures of ships capsized, of people brought out of the water dead.""

""Those people often cherish expectations of a properous future abroad, expectations doomed to disappointment because the everyday life of illegal immgrants inevitably falls short of their hopes,"" the office added.

The advert (available here: http://www.blick.ch/news/ausland/so-schrecken-wir-die-afrikaner-ab-76915 [http://www.blick.ch/news/ausland/so-schrecken-wir-die-afrikaner-ab-76915]) was first broadcast on Nigeria television during a football match, the SonntagsBlick said.

Franco Frattini, the European Commissioner for Justice, Freedom and Security, said on Wednesday that the European Commission supported efforts to inform African migrants about the dangers of their trip.

""Just one point I believe is quite far from the reality. The father of this young man sitting in a chair, very quiet, with a fantastic and modern telephone ... Their fathers live in very poor condition, not in a very modern apartment,"" he said.

""For the rest, it's true that young people that run the risk of crossing illegally the Mediterranean, they arrive here in Brussels or in Spain or in Italy, with the rain, where they have to escape from police, sometimes they are caught, so this is reality,"" he added. (Reporting by Tom Armitage and Reuters television; Editing by Richard Balmforth)"	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
257	Switzerland	2008	54	Corporate	"ZURICH, Oct 21 (Reuters) - Credit Suisse Group AG's holdings of its own equity fell below 10 percent of voting rights due to the Swiss bank selling treasury shares as part of measures to strengthen its capital position.

Credit Suisse's total holdings of equity securities, shares and derivatives, now equal 6.56 percent of voting rights.

TD 

Credit Suisse said last week it raised about 10 billion Swiss francs, or about 12 percent of its outstanding equity, from investors including the Qatar Investment Authority, a capital injection that meant the bank can now meet strict new Swiss capital rules set for 2013. [ID:nLG360081] (Reporting by Sam Cage; Editing by Paul Bolding)"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
410	Switzerland	2005	54	Corporate	"(Adds background)

ZURICH, Nov 16 (Reuters) - Swisscom AG does not want to endanger its mobile phone partnership with Britain's Vodafone Group Plc , the head of the Swiss company's mobile unit, Carsten Schloter, said on Wednesday.

TD 

If Swisscom, which is in talks on a possible takeover of Ireland's Eircom Group Plc , were to buy Eircom, the Swiss company would compete directly with Vodafone in the Irish mobile phone market.

Vodafone owns 25 percent in Swisscom Mobile and is an essential partner for the Swiss company's mobile telecommunications unit, providing technology and roaming services.

When asked if a possible deal with Eircom would threaten the relationship with Vodafone, as analysts have feared, Schloter said: ""This partnership is so successful that we would do nothing to endanger it.""

Swisscom's mobile unit paid Vodafone 352 million Swiss francs ($266.3 million) in the previous year for roaming rights, customer access to its Internet portal Vodafone Live and other services.

Swisscom is currently performing due-diligence enquiries into Eircom after having made an indicative offer valuing the Irish group at more than 2.6 billion euros, industry sources have said.

However, it remains unclear whether Swisscom will actually bid for the firm, which controls three-quarters of the Irish fixed-line market and is the country's largest Internet service provider.

Eircom sold its mobile unit Eircell to Vodafone in 2001 but returned to the market in 2005 by buying up the country's smallest mobile provider Meteor for around $500 million. At the end of June, Meteor had around 410,000 customers.

Swisscom, which has lost bids for Telekom Austria AG and Cesky Telecom , is also said to be still interested in Denmark's TDC ."	1	1	1	2	0	1			1	1.5
5	Switzerland	1998	59	Corporate	"GENEVA, Dec 7 (Reuters) - International air passenger traffic in the Americas will leap by over 110 percent from current figures by the end of the first decade of the new century, an air transport industry group predicts. 

The Geneva-based Air Transport Action Group (ATAG) said by the year 2011 there would be 325 million international passengers travelling to, from and within North, South and Central America against 154 million in 1996. 
 
TD 
 In a summary of a new report it is just releasing, ATAG said overall international traffic in the region - excluding domestic flights - would grow by an annual average of 5.1 percent between 1996 and 2011. 

ATAG said that although the U.S. mainland itself would record slightly slower growth of 4.9 percent per annum, in absolute terms it would generate the most additional travel. 

By the year 2011, the United States itself would account for almost 240 million passengers passing through the airports of the region on international flights, or 74 percent of all traffic. 

Canada and Mexico, the second and third largest markets in the Americas, would see their international traffic grow by 4.1 percent and 6.4 percent respectively, ATAG said. 

Chile, which between 1986 and 1996 was the region's fastest-growing market with an increase of 14.6 percent a year, would retain the lead - although with a much lower annual growth rate of 8.2 percent. 

The overall report, titled ""The America's Air Passenger Traffic 1985-2011"" covers 51 countries in the region, said ATAG, an indepent coalition of airlines, airports, air authorities and businesses whocih lobbies governments for improvements in aviation capacity. ((Geneva Newsroom, +41 22 733 38 31, fax +41 22 734 87 60)). 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
403	Switzerland	1995	63	Political	"GENEVA, Nov 17 (Reuter) - England, Denmark, Germany and Spain have been seeded for next year's European soccer championships finals, UEFA said on Friday.

England and Denmark were seeded automatically as hosts and title-holders. Germany and Spain received the status by virtue of their records in the last World Cup and European championship qualifiers.

TD 

England have been allocated to Group A in London and Birmingham, playing their early matches at Wembley and Villa Park. Denmark, Germany and Spain will be drawn to groups B, C and D.

The other 12 teams in the championships will be placed into the four groups at the finals draw, in Birmingham on December 17.

Group B matches will be played at Elland Road, Leeds and St James's Park, Newcastle. Group C teams play at Old Trafford, Manchester and Anfield, Liverpool while group D sides are based at Hillsborough, Sheffield, and the City Ground, Nottingham.

The 15 qualifiers to date are: England , Romania, France, Spain, Denmark, Switzerland, Turkey, Croatia, Italy, Czech Republic, Portugal, Bulgaria, Germany, Russia, Scotland.

The winner of the play-off between Ireland and the Netherlands at Liverpool on December 13, completes the finalists.

UEFA said on Friday the Dutch-Irish game would be decided by sudden-death in extra time if the two teams were level at the end of normal time. Failing a goal in extra time, the match will go to a penalty shoot-out.

(c) Reuters Limited 1995"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
156	Switzerland	1990	64	Corporate	"ZURICH, Nov 14 (Reuter) - Swiss building materials firm Holderbank Financiere Glarus AG said it plans to launch a programme of American Depositary Receipts (ADR) in the United States next year. 

""The group is confident this can be launched in 1995,"" chairman and chief executive Thomas Schmidheiny told a news conference, adding the aim was to enlarge the company's shareholder base. 
 
TD 
 ADR's are receipts for the shares of foreign-based companies held in the vault of a U.S. bank and entitle the holder to all dividends and capital gains. 

Instead of buying shares of foreign-based companies in foreign markets, Americans can buy shares in the U.S. in the form of an ADR. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
69	Switzerland	1997	70	Corporate	"ZURICH, Dec 11 (Reuters) - Credit Suisse Group -- the other big Swiss bank left after the planned merger of Union Bank of Switzerland (UBS) and Swiss Bank Corp (SBC) -- is not planning a major acquisitions to keep up with its rival, chief executive Lukas Muehlemann said in a magazine interview published on Thursday. 

But CS Group would continue its strategy of selective acquisitions, especially outside Switzerland, Muehlemann told the Swiss news magazine Facts. 
 
TD 
 Asked whether CS Group would be forced to seek a larger partner after the mammoth merger of UBS and SBC as, Muehlemann said: ""No. We will continue with our established strategy. 

""We see acquisitions being primarily abroad. With selective take-overs, such as we did with Britain's BZW, we round off our position,"" he told the magazine. 

Credit Suisse First Boston, the group's investment banking arm, agreed in November to buy the British and European equities business of BZW from Barclays Plc. 

""In Switzerland, we have a good, workable position,"" Muehlemann said. 

Muehlemann said CS Group was committed to its strategy of providing one-stop banking and insurance services, or so-called ""bancassurance."" 

The strategy was sealed when CS Group and major Swiss insurer Winterthur agreed in August to merge as a colossus with total assets of around 700 billion Swiss francs ($484.6 billion), second in Switzerland only to the new United Bank with 922 billion francs. 

Muehlemann said CS Group's strength would now be based on its bancassurance side as well as a strong presence in investment banking in Europe and the United States. 

Asked whether CS Group would seek a merger with a big German bank, a subject of periodic stock market speculation, Muehlemann said, ""We will certainly continue to expand our investment banking as well as the areas of private and institutional asset management in the coming years."" 

""We will do this under our own power or with the appropriate partners. And these (partners) are not just present in Germany."" 

Muehlemann declined to name potential partners, but he ruled out a future merger of CS Group with the new United Bank, a step which would create just one massive bank overshadowing all the remaining regional and private banks in Switzerland. 

""This is not conceivable. There are dimensions that are too large to be workable. This would be good for nobody,"" he said. 

Switzerland's financial sector should calm down now after the United Bank merger and a wave of acquisitions and major restructuring programmes at the big banks and insurers, Muehlemann said. 

""Developments like the merger we just experienced will be seen mainly abroad. For the time being, I expect a consolidation in Switzerland,"" he said. ((Zurich newsroom +41 1 631 73 40, fax +41 1 202 55 38, zurich.newsroom@reuters.com)) ($ = 1.444 Swiss Francs) 

 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
25	Switzerland	2001	72	Political	"GENEVA, Nov 23 (Reuters) - A United Nations human rights body expressed concern on Friday about what it said was lack of progress in Indonesia in bringing security forces to trial over allegations of torture. 

In a report on the southeast Asian country, the U.N. Committee against Torture welcomed the fact that the Jakarta government had made the stamping out of torture a priority. 
 
TD 
 But it said that Indonesia still had a lot to do. It must carry out such reforms as overhauling its legal system to make the use of torture a criminal offence and establish an independent system for investigating complaints. 

""The Committee is also concerned about a climate of impunity, advanced in part because of the fact that there has been little progress in bringing to trial members of the military, the police or other state officials,"" it said. 

Despite the fact that Indonesia had ratified the 1987 Convention against Torture, there were large numbers of allegations against the police force - especially mobile units such as the elite Brimob - and the army as well as paramilitary groups reportedly linked to the government, it added. 

Felice Gaer, an American jurist who is among the 10 independent experts on the Committee, noted that the report was the first probe of Indonesia to be carried out under the terms of the Convention against Torture, which it ratified in 1998. 

""The Committee recognised that the country was in a process of transition to democracy,"" she told a news conference at the end of a two-week meeting in Geneva which examined five countries. 

""We expressed concern on a range of issues including impunity and the need for greater guarantees of independence for the National Human Rights Commission,"" she said. 

The Committee also urged Indonesia to guarantee a proposed human rights court for East Timor to be able to deal effectively with the abuses alleged to have occurred in the former Portuguese colony after it voted in 1999 to break away from Jakarta's rule. 

Human rights activists say that hundreds of people were killed when pro-Jakarta militias went on the rampage following the referendum that put an end to 25 years of Indonesian rule. 

It also called on Jakarta to invite the U.N. Special Rapporteur on Torture to visit, something he has wanted to do since 1993. 
 
"	3	1	3	1	0	0		1	3	1
404	Switzerland	1993	73	Corporate	"ZURICH, Nov 19 (Reuter) - Swiss lift and rolling stock maker Schindler Holding AG said it and Jardine Pacific had agreed to redefine and strengthen their Asia Pacific joint venture, formed in 1974.

The two firms' cooperation had hitherto consisted of joint ventures in which Schindler held 40 percent and Jardine Pacific 60 percent, it said in a statement. From January 1, those ventures would be brought into a new company, called Jardine Schindler Holdings Inc, in which each would hold 50 percent.

TD 

Schindler added it also had an option to increase its stake, and thus become majority shareholder.

The two firms' cooperation covers the lift and escalator business.

""Redefinition of the cooperation will allow both more efficient transfer of...Schindler lift and rolling stock techonology and more intensive coverage of the promising Asian Pacific markets,"" the firm said.

Schindler said in October it expected to record at least 10 percent profit growth in 1993, after group net profits rose 27 percent in 1992, to 110.7 million francs.

Schindler is a world leader in the escalator business, with a market share of more than 20 percent.

(c) Reuters Limited 1993"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
261	Switzerland	2003	79	Political	"ZURICH, Nov 7 (Reuters) - The Swiss unemployment rate rose to 3.8 percent in October from 3.7 percent in September, the Swiss government said on Friday, signalling that job security fears will remain a brake on the domestic sector.

The State Secretariat for Economic Affairs said the number of registered unemployed had risen some 4,571 to 151,259.

TD 

Economists surveyed by Reuters had expected the jobless rate to rise to 3.8 percent."	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
429	Switzerland	1994	79	Political	"GENEVA, Oct 29 (Reuter) - Results of Swiss first division soccer matches played on Saturday:

 Neuchatel Xamax   1   Lucerne	1
 Lausanne	    4    Young Boys  1
TD 

Standings (tabulate under played, won, drawn, lost, goals for, goals against, points):

Grasshoppers 16 10 5 1 30 13 25

 Lausanne	  17    7   7   3   26   18   21
 Neuchatel	 17    8   4   5   26   23   20
 Lugano	    16    6   7   3   22   10   19
 Lucerne	   17    6   6   5   20   24   18
 Aarau	     16    5   7   4   22   17   17
 Sion		16    6   2   8   22   30   14
 Basle	     16    3   7   6   13   12   13
 FC Zurich	 16    2   9   5   14   21   13
 St Gallen	 16    2   9   5   13   21   13
 Servette	  16    3   6   7   18   21   12
 Young Boys	17    4   3  10   16   32   11
(c) Reuters Limited 1994"	1	1	1	1	0	2			1	1
49	Switzerland	1999	80	Corporate	"ZURICH, Dec 2 (Reuters) - Novartis AG unsheathed a double-edged sword on Thursday by spinning off its agribusiness and declaring it would focus on healthcare as the key to shareholder value, equity analysts said. 

Shorn of the agribusiness excuse as to why top-line growth has stagnated, Novartis now has to convince markets it has the high-powered drugs business it needs to thrive on its own without having to strike a big strategic deal, they added. 
 
TD 
 Novartis Chairman Daniel Vasella painted the move to spin off the agribusiness - by merging it with that of AstraZeneca Plc before floating it to shareholders - as a way to clear the decks and focus on the core healthcare business. 

""This transaction is part of Novartis's strategy to focus on its healthcare business portfolio. We have an outstanding outlook based on our rich and promising pipeline and our strong technology platform,"" he said in a statement. 

Stripping out agribusiness means spinning off a division that contributed nearly 30 percent of group sales and 20 percent of operating profit in the first half of 1999. 

NOVARTIS TO CONCENTRATE ON HEALTHCARE 

Asked how Novartis planned to fill the gap, Vasella told Reuters: ""Concentrate on healthcare. Launch new products. Grow the product line."" 

Asked if that meant focusing on internal growth as opposed to acquisitions, Vasella said: ""Yes, that's what it means. That's the first priority."" Bank Leu analyst Plinio Zanetti said the spinoff should help Novartis shares, which firmed on the news after strong gains this week amid speculation that a big deal was imminent. 

""I think that Novartis is probably, or will become, a pure play in the health sector. One reason why the shares were valued lower was because they were a mixed company. That could mean that Novartis, in that sense, will be valued higher. Novartis was the cheapest on a worldwide basis,"" he said. 

He believed that Novartis, excluding the spun-off agribusiness activities, would be worth more than its current valuation at some 23 to 24 times earnings. 

""I think it could be more than 25,"" he said. 

AGRIBUSINESS MUDDIED WATERS FOR SOME INVESTORS 

Denise Anderson at Bank Sarasin agreed it was a good idea to ditch the agribusiness, which offered no synergies with the other divisions and which muddied the waters for investors seeking drug stocks as a defensive play. 

""People concentrated on agribusiness as the problem. Now, the spotlight is going to hit pharma really hard,"" she said. 

""Their (sales) growth is not going to look good for quite a while. That is why the share price is rather dead in the water today, because you still have a weak pharmaceutical pipeline until 2002."" 

This will fuel speculation that Novartis may push more aggressively for a pharmaceutical linkup, she added, suggesting this talk was the main reason to keep Novartis at a market performer rating. 

Anderson thought a big strategic deal would have to wait until Novartis could deal more from a position of strength. 

Meanwhile, investors may look askance at the stock until the agribusiness - which she thought could be worth 30 billion Swiss francs ($18.9 billion) - is spun off late next year. 

""A lot of investors have already told me they want a pharmaceutical company, not an agribusiness company. Now if you are holding the shares at that time, you'll have both. In a way, people will be even more hesitant to buy Novartis."" 

The new Syngenta AG company could also face a rough ride at first when investors with drug stock portfolios sell it off because they cannot hold it. This in turn could scare off Novartis investors in the meantime. (Additional reporting by Alice Ratcliffe in Basle) ((Zurich newsroom +41 1 631 7340 fax +41 1 202 5538, zurich.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 
"	3	4	3	4	0	0		1	3	4
486	Switzerland	2007	86	Political	"	
By Stephanie Nebehay

GENEVA, Nov 13 (Reuters Life!) - A rare Patek Philippe wristwatch worn by an Indian Maharaja and a gold and diamond-set Breguet crafted for French Empress Josephine Bonaparte fetched well above pre-sale estimates at a Geneva auction.

TD 

Auction house Christie's said on Tuesday the sale netted 31.1 million Swiss francs ($27.7 million) and was ""the most successful auction ever"" of watches from various owners, confirming the ""absolute strength of the market for fine collector watches.""

A 1944 Patek Philippe perpetual calendar wristwatch -- believed to be one of only two made -- was bought by an unnamed Swiss museum for 2.5 million Swiss francs, double Christie's pre-sale estimate.

According to Christie's, the Maharaja wore the watch when playing polo and gave it to the man who organised his wedding.

""When a watch is either of historic value, exceedingly technically complex, in superb unmolested condition or of fresh provenance, then the market is fighting very hard to secure these pieces,"" Aurel Bacs of Christie's said.

A gold, enamel and diamond-set timepiece ordered by Napoleon Bonaparte's first wife Josephine in 1799 was bought by the Breguet museum for 1.5 million Swiss francs, four times its maximum estimate. The museum has several exhibition centres.

Intended to be worn on a chain around the neck it is set in a circular case with a royal blue enamel front and a diamond-set initial letter ""H"" surmounted by a crown. Josephine gave the watch to her daughter Hortense de Beauharnais, who married Napoleon's brother Louis and became Queen of Holland in 1806.

A 1954 Rolex Oyster perpetual Submariner, believed to be the first model of the legendary water-resistant series later worn by Sean Connery in James Bond films ""Dr. No"" and ""Goldfinger"", sold for 176,200 Swiss francs, twice its estimate.

Rival auction house Sotheby's offered 160 timepieces at a separate sale on Tuesday evening, raising 7.6 million Swiss francs.

A pair of perfume sprays, in the form of gold flintlock pistols and with built-in watches, fetched 855,400 Swiss francs, double their estimate.

A sale held on Sunday at Antiquorum netted 9.1 million Swiss francs amid what it called ""very strong interest in Rolex watches."" (Editing by Golnar Motevalli)"	4	4	3	3	1	1			3.5	3.5
193	Switzerland	2003	92	Political	"ZURICH, Oct 8 (Reuters) - Switzerland faces further criticism over its role in Italy's blackout last month after France accused the Swiss of being too slow to report the collapse of a key cross-border powerline, an industry source said on Wednesday. 

French grid operator RTE sent a letter to the coordinating body for Switzerland's high voltage grid, Etrans, accusing Switzerland of failing to report the breakdown of a transmission line in time and not following the correct emergency procedures, the source told Reuters. 
 
TD 
 ""Everyone is trying to pass on the blame,"" he said. 

Chief Executive of Etrans, Karl Imhof, confirmed he had received a letter from the French grid operator. 

""We have received a letter which contains accusations,"" Imhof said. RTE was not immediately available for comment. 

A massive blackout on September 28 knocked out power throughout Italy, plunging millions of people into darkness for hours and followed a series of blackouts in North America, London and Scandinavia in recent months. 

Earlier this week, Italian and French energy regulators and the Swiss Federal Office for Energy agreed to carry out a joint inquiry into Italy's massive power cut, which triggered a round of international fingerpointing. 

""It is obvious that everybody is jostling for position, and maybe trying to build coalitions to strengthen their positions,"" Imhof said, adding he felt mounting pressure from Italy and France. 

Etrans has said the Italian grid operator did not increase power generation when asked to do so after a key powerline across the Swiss-Italian Alps was knocked out in central Switzerland. 

The Brussels-based Union for the Co-ordination of Transmission of Electricity - the UCTE - has also launched an investigation into Italy's blackout, with an initial report expected on October 20. 
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
332	Switzerland	2006	95	Corporate	"ZURICH, Nov 3 (Reuters) - Swiss lockmaker Kaba Holding AG said on Friday it bought distribution group Cillekens from the Netherlands for around 1.5 million euros ($1.92 million).

Cillekens, which Kaba said is one of the biggest distributors in the industry in the Netherlands, had no debt and posted turnover of 3.5 million euros last year.

TD 

Kaba made the purchase through its Silca unit, which makes and distributes key blanks, key coding machines and transponder keys. Cillekens already distributes Silca products."	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
238	Switzerland	1994	100	Political	"GENEVA, Oct 14 (Reuter) - A Canadian associate of sun cult guru Luc Jouret emerged on Friday as a possible ""fourth man"" at the head of the sect which went into auto-destruct last week leaving 53 people dead, some murdered. 

Swiss journalists following the inquiry in Switzerland and Canada into the bizarre affair said police would like to interview Jean-Pierre Vinet, a former senior official of the HydroQuebec public power company in Montreal. 
 
TD 
 A police spokesman declined to confirm that any search was on for Vinet, seen only days before in the region of the two tragedies in Switzerland and the only top cult figure not yet identified among the dead. 

But in reports from Lausanne, where a joint investigation group is now operating, and from Montreal, the daily Le Matin said that, with confirmation that Jouret himself had died, Vinet ""becomes the number one enigma in the affair."" 

A key figure in Jouret's efforts to expand his ""Order of the Solar Temple"" in Canada over the past decade, Vinet was found guilty together with the Belgian doctor in 1993 of an arms offence in Quebec and lost his job at the power company. 

With 15 bodies still to be identified of the 25 found in two burning chalets in the Alpine village of Granges-sur-Selvan, police left no doubt they believed he might have died with Jouret and two other cult chiefs. 

These were its apparent mastermind in Switzerland, flamboyant businessman Joseph Di Mambro, and Camille Pilet, a rich, former watch company executive, believed to be the secretive Order's treasurer and financial director. 

The badly burned body of Jouret, for whom with Di Mambro an international arrest warrant had been out, was identified on Thursday on the basis of dental records. 

But Le Matin, echoed by other newspaper and radio reports, suggested that Vinet -- whose wife is also missing -- might still be alive. ""Did he prepare the diabolical plan and then flee with some of the sect's money?"" it asked. 

Investigation into the cult's funds -- and the properties its leaders owned in several countries -- are under way in Europe, North America and Australia, but initial reports of huge sums hidden away have not been confirmed. 

Police are far from establishing exactly what happened at Granges and at a farm in Cheiry 160 km (100 miles) away to the north where 23 bodies were found on October 5 -- and what link there is with five other deaths near Montreal. 

Speculation has focused on a scenario under which the unexplained murder at a house in Quebec, owned by Di Mambro, of a young Swiss couple and their three-month-old child may have sparked a fatal frenzy among sect leaders. 

Under this scenario, which investigators have indicated they feel could be near the truth, two people involved in that killing then returned to Switzerland leaving another Swiss couple to commit suicide when the house burned on October 4. 

Di Mambro and Jouret then perhaps directed members of the sect to gather in Cheiry or Granges. At Cheiry, they either convinced followers there to accept death -- probably by shooting after being drugged -- or killed them. 

They then drove to Granges along Switzerland's main autoroute and went to their own deaths -- in Di Mambro's case with his wife and son -- with cult members there, maybe after taking poison or perhaps also drugged and burned alive. 

 
"	2	5	1	5	1	0			1.5	5
109	UK	2006	1	Corporate	"LONDON, Dec 31 (Reuters) - The London Stock Exchange, currently being stalked by U.S. rival Nasdaq Stock Markets, said on Sunday companies listing on its markets raised a record 27.9 billion pounds ($54.83 billion) in 2006. 

The exchange has staked its defence against Nasdaq's hostile bid partly on its ability to attract companies to list on its markets. 
 
TD 
 Many of these initial public offerings (IPOs) were from international companies, Europe's largest exchange said in a statement, including the exchange's largest, by Russian oil company Rosneft in July. 

Rosneft raised 3.58 billion pounds in its IPO. 

During 2006, the LSE attracted 99 international IPOs from companies incorporated in 25 countries. 

Between them, these international companies raised 13.0 billion pounds on LSE's markets, of which 2.7 billion pounds was raised on its Alternative Investment Market (AIM) -- its market for growing and smaller companies. 

The strength in the IPO market came despite a lull in the summer when several high profile IPOs were postponed after markets slid on interest rate worries. 

Earlier this month Nasdaq launched a 2.7-billion-pound ($5.3-billion) hostile bid for the LSE, needing just over a fifth of LSE shareholders to accept for it to take control. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
402	UK	1993	2	Corporate	"LONDON, Dec 31 (Reuter) - Danka Business Systems Plc said it has acquired American Office Equipment Company, Inc (AOE) and subsidiaries.

AOE is a copier dealer based in Chicago, Illinois with 11 branches throughout the Chicago metropolitan area and northern Indiana. Danka said it paid $8.3 million in cash for AOE plus a contingent amount of up to $1.0 million based on certain future earnings criteria.

TD 

For its most recent financial year, AOE reported sales of $28.0 million, a $1.0 million operating profit and net assets of $2.0 million, said Danka in a statement.

(c) Reuters Limited 1993"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
9	UK	1998	3	Political	"LONDON, Dec 31 (Reuters) - Britain on Thursday honoured former U.S. Senator George Mitchell and other figures who worked to bring about peace in Northern Ireland. 

The traditional New Years Honours List, prepared for the second time by Prime Minister Tony Blair who came to power in 1997, placed heavy emphasis on ""those who have helped give peace a chance"" in the British province, a spokesman for Blair told reporters. 
 
TD 
 Mitchell, who spent months in Belfast chairing marathon talks leading up to a peace accord reached last April, was given an honorary knighthood as a ""Grand Knight of the Order of the British Empire"". 

U.S. citizens such as President Ronald Reagan and his defence secretary, Caspar Weinberger, have been given honorary knighthoods before, but the award is relatively rare. 

Former Conservative Prime Minister John Major, who began the process leading to the April agreement, was made a Companion of Honour, a select title limited to a handful of members, for his services to peace in Northern Ireland. 

The same title went to one of Mitchell's two co-chairmen, Canadian General John de Chastelain. A former prime minister of Finland, Harri Holkeri, the other co-chairman, became an honorary Knight of the Order of the British Empire. 

Knighthoods also went to Northern Ireland's police chief, Ronnie Flanagan, and to two British civil servants closely involved in the peace process, John Holmes and Quentin Thomas 

Blair's spokesman said he had wanted to honour some members of the pro-Irish nationalist community in the province, but the awards had been turned down. 

""It is entirely a matter for them and we are perfectly relaxed about it. We understand when people don't want to accept these honours,"" he said, declining to give further details. 

Blair has tried hard to bridge the gap between majority Protestants and minority Roman Catholics in Northern Ireland. The latter have traditionally shunned honours awarded by the British Crown. 

One woman honoured ""for services to justice"" was Mrs Gareth Peirce, a lawyer who has campaigned for years for the Irish victims of miscarriage of justice in British courts. She was made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE). 

In other sections of the honours list Blair preserved the traditional mixture of gongs for show business and sports stars, top businessmen, civil servants and humble citizens nominated for their good works. 

Abstract painter Bridget Riley became a Companion of Honour while a real-life knighthood went to actor Nigel Hawthorne, famous for his role as the manipulative civil servant Sir Humphrey Appleby in the television comedy ""Yes Minister"". 

One step down the ladder, former James Bond actor Roger Moore was made a CBE for his work for charity, especially the United Nations Childrens' Fund UNICEF. 

The same award went to comedian Lenny Henry and actress Maureen Lipman. 

Those honoured with an OBE (Officer of the Order of the British Empire), the next highest honour, included actor Robert Carlyle, star of the films ""Trainspotting"" and ""The Full Monty"", and showbiz veterans Dusty Springfield, David Essex and Tom Jones. 

In the world of sport, the top honour went to Formula One motor racing team boss Frank Williams, who was given a knighthood. Footballer Trevor Brooking got a CBE. 

Heptathlete Denise Lewis, boxer Prince Naseem Hamed, cricketer Angus Fraser and footballer Stuart Pearce were awarded the MBE (Member of the Order of the British Empire). 

There were five new life peers, including Sir Alexander Trotman, former chairman and chief executive of U.S. carmaker Ford Motor Co, and Sir David Williamson, former secretary-general of the European Commission, the European Union's executive. 

The others were Sir Peter Imbert, former head of London's Metropolitan Police, Onora O'Neill, head of Newnham College, Cambridge University, and Sir Naren Patel, past president of the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists. 

 
"	2	5	2	5	0	0			2	5
458	UK	1990	19	Political	"LONDON, Dec 29, Reuter - Czechoslovakia on Saturday joined a growing list of nations which have warned its citizens to stay away from the Gulf and Middle East.

Official Czechoslovak Radio said the foreign ministry advised citizens not to travel to the Gulf, where a U.S.-led multi-national force is gearing up for war if Iraq fails to leave Kuwait before a U.N. deadline of January 15.

TD 

Due to the ""dangerous development"" in the Gulf crisis, Prague also suggested that long-term workers in the Gulf and Middle East send wives and children home and consider leaving the region themselves, the radio, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corporation, said.

Earlier this week, Spain, Poland and Belgium issued similar warnings. On Thursday, Cable News Network said that the U.S. Defence Department was completing standby plans to evacuate more than 30,000 U.S. citizens from the Middle East before January 15.

Britain had earlier urged civilians to leave eastern Saudi Arabia by January 15 and advised dependants to leave Bahrain and Qatar.

Washington had previously ordered ""non-essential"" U.S. personnel to leave Jordan and Sudan and advised its citizens to avoid travel in much of the Gulf area because of instability caused by Iraq's invasion of Kuwait on August 2."	1	1	2	1	1	0			1.5	1
118	UK	2005	20	Political	"LONDON, Dec 29 (Reuters) - British police searching for the murderer of the great grandson of 19th century poet Alfred Tennyson arrested a 44-year-old man on Thursday. 

Hallam Tennyson, 85, was found dead with stab wounds to the neck and head injuries in his north London home on Dec. 21. 
 
TD 
 ""This was a brutal attack on an elderly and vulnerable man,"" Detective Chief Inspector Tony Nash said in a statement announcing the arrest. 

""It is now vital that we build up a picture of Mr Tennyson's last movements and we are appealing to anyone who may have seen him on the days leading up to his murder to contact us."" 

Nash said Tennyson, a retired BBC executive, had continued to lead ""a full and active life"" despite his age. Police were keeping ""an open mind"" about the circumstances of the murder. 

Alfred Tennyson was Britain's poet laureate from 1850 to his death in 1892. Among his best-known works was the Crimean war epic, ""The Charge of the Light Brigade."" 
 
"	1	5	1	5	0	0			1	5
116	UK	1993	22	Corporate	"LONDON, Dec 30 (Reuter) - U.K. major British banking groups made gross mortgage loans for house purchase of 1.58 billion stg in November, a drop of 2.6 percent from October's lending of 1.62 billion stg, largely due to seasonal factors, the British Bankers' Association said. 

Mortgage approvals fell more sharply, by 13 percent to 1.26 billion stg from 1.45 billion stg in October. 
 
TD 
 The average value of loans approved fell by nearly 4.0 percent to 46,700, although this was still 4.0 percent higher than in the fourth quarter of 1992. 

The major British banking groups include eight of the 20 largest mortgage lenders in the U.K. As such, they account for some 36 percent of total gross lending by all mortgage lenders in the first three quarters of this year. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
361	UK	1991	23	Corporate	"LONDON, Dec 27, Reuter - Daicel International Finance B.V. has launched a 10 billion yen eurobond due Feb 20, 1997, paying 6.30 pct and priced at 101.75 pct, lead manager Nomura International said.

The deal is being reoffered at 100.25.

TD 

Fees total 1.875 points. Payment date is Feb 20, 1992."	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
110	UK	2004	27	Political	"LONDON, Dec 30 (Reuters) - Britain more than tripled its pledge of aid to victims of the Asian tsunamis on Thursday to 50 million pounds ($96 million), saying the scale of the disaster had proven to be far beyond its initial estimates. 

The pledge made Britain the largest single bilateral donor to the aid effort, International Development Secretary Hilary Benn said. 
 
TD 
 Britain had initially pledged just 15 million pounds, but the government came under criticism for its small response as members of the public privately poured more than 20 million pounds into a charity appeal on its first day. 

""We have looked at the initial assessments from our teams on the ground. We have also received financial appeals from the Red Cross, the U.N. and from a large number of UK aid agencies. And it is now sadly clear that the scale of destruction and loss of life is increasing all the time,"" Benn said in a statement. 

He said the money would be given to international aid agencies to deliver relief supplies to those affected. 

Britain also airlited World Health Organisation medical kits to Indonesia, providing basic health supplies for 100,000 people for three months, he said. 

""I have said from the start of this crisis that we would make available the money needed."" 
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
341	UK	2000	28	Political	"LONDON, Dec 30 (Reuters) - List of 17bowlers who have taken

300 wickets or more in test cricket after Sri Lanka's Muttiah

TD 

Muralitharan passed the 300 mark in the first test against South

Africa in Durban on Saturday:

				     Matches  Wickets
C.Walsh (West Indies)	    126   492
Kapil Dev (India)		  131   434
R.Hadlee (New Zealand)	    86   431
Wasim Akram (Pakistan)	   100   409
C.Ambrose (West Indies)	   98   405
I.Botham (England)		 102   383
M.Marshall (West Indies)	  81   376
S.Warne (Australia)		 84   366
Imran Khan (Pakistan)	     88   362
D.Lillee (Australia)		70   355
R.Willis (England)		  90   325
Waqar Younis (Pakistan)	   68   313
L.Gibbs (West Indies)	     79   309
A.Donald (South Africa)	   64   308
F.Trueman (England)		 67   307
G.McGrath (Australia)	     66   305
M.Muralitharan (Sri Lanka)	58   302."	1	5	1	5	0	4			1	5
101	UK	1993	39	Corporate	"LONDON, Dec 30 (Reuter) - Royal Dutch/Shell Group said the plastics merger it has agreed with Montedison SpA will account for about a tenth of the turnover of the Royal Dutch/Shell chemicals business. 

Sales proceeds of the chemicals division in 1992 were $9.8 billion. Group proceeds were $128.42 million. 
 
TD 
 A Shell spokesman said final terms of the deal had yet to be set. But Montedison was expected to bring $2.1 billion of debt to the deal, which would be refinanced by the combined company. 

Shell was not expected to bring any debt to the deal. 

The spokesman said it was too early to predict the size of cost savings or profit improvements the merger would bring. 

But the deal would establish a strong player with a critical mass big enough to develop a range of new products. 

""This is a business where there is a clear need for rationalisation,"" the spokesman said. 

Shell has already said Montedison would contribute proceeds approaching $2 billion to the new company, and Shell would contribute more than $1 billion. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
40	UK	1997	42	Corporate	"LONDON, Dec 30 (Reuters) - British investment company Burlington Group Plc said on Tuesday it had conditionally agreed to the reverse acquisition of entertainment and media firm Sanctuary Group Plc for a total 14.6 million pounds. 

The consideration -- based on a placing price of 20 pence per share -- will be in the form of 65 million new shares in the group, 6.9 million warrants, 875,000 pounds in unlisted unsecured loan notes and 699,240 pounds in cash. 
 
TD 
 The purchase is conditional on the approval from shareholders of existing Burlington shares at an extraordinary general meeting on January 22, and on the admission of existing and new shares and warrants to the official list of the London stock exchange. 

Burlington, whose shares were suspended at 22 pence on December 18 pending approval of reorganisation proposals, is to change its name to the Sanctuary Group Plc after the acquisition. 

To reduce the reliance on debt financing, the company plans to raise 5.3 million pounds through a placing and open offer of 26.5 million new shares at 20 pence per share. 

The open offer to existing shareholders is being made on the basis of one new share for every six held at close of business on December 18. One warrant -- exercisable between 1998 and 2002 at 25 pence -- will be given at no cost for every four new shares received in the placing and open offer. 

The group also proposes a bonus issue of warrants at no cost to existing shareholders of one warrant for every two shares held on December 18. 

 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
250	UK	2000	51	Political	"LONDON, Dec 29 (Reuters) - He drives a golf ball impossible distances, possesses a smile slightly more dazzling than the sun, amasses riches as easily as Bill Gates and reveres his parents.

Yet even Tiger Woods, indisputably the athlete of the year 2000, is human.

TD 

In London's Hyde Park last month the Tiger strove in vain to reproduce a television stunt.

Six times he juggled a ball at the end of his iron and tried to hit it in to the stratosphere. Six times he failed.

""I guess I just suck,"" Woods muttered.

Little else in an astonishing year yielded even a hint of mortality.

Woods joined Ben Hogan as the only man to win three majors in a season. He won nine U.S. titles, the most since Sam Snead 50 years ago. His material reward was a record $9,000,000 Tour prize money.

After Fiji's Vijay Singh won the U.S. Masters, the year belonged to Woods.

He touched perfection in winning the U.S. Open by a record 15 strokes and the British Open by eight, the latter in a record 19-under-par.

Then to prove he could still win when not at his transcendent best, Woods beat Bob Mays in a three-hole playoff of escalating and grinding tension to retain the U.S. PGA.

Eerie skill allied to the studied calm of a Zen master was accompanied by a keen sense of his commercial worth. Woods asked unsuccessfully for money to play in the Ryder Cup and suggested he was the U.S. tour should pay more for using his image in its promotions.

WILLIAMS DEMANDS MORE

Similar demands by Richard Williams, father of Venus and Serena, disturbed the sisters' rivals on the women's tennis tour.

Richard Williams said his daughters generated higher television ratings and revenue than other players and were therefore entitled to a bigger slice of the pie.

Whatever the right and wrongs of each case, Woods, of mixed race, and Venus Williams, the first black Wimbledon champion since the late Arthur Ashe in 1975, did extend appreciation of their sports in the United States beyond the traditional middle class enclaves.

Venus beat little sister Serena in an anti-climatic Wimbledon semifinal then defeated defending champion Lindsay Davenport in the final. Her father added an unnecessary embellishment by holding up hand-lettered signs including ""IT'S VENUS'S PARTY AND NO ONE WAS INVITED!""

The contrast with Pete Sampras, who won a record 13th grand slam title on the Wimbledon grass, could not have been greater.

Sampras refuses to pander to those who demand show business with their sport, remaining content to display unequalled excellence based on a precise and deadly serve coupled with all-round athleticism.

He defeated Australian Pat Rafter in four sets, watched by parents who steadfastly avoided the media.

Venus Williams travelled to Sydney for the Olympics, winning the singles title and sharing the doubles with Serena, at a Games which proved a triumph for a vibrant, confident nation rightly celebrated for its sporting prowess.

FREEMAN AND THORPE DELIVER

The venues were spectacular, the crowds appreciative and knowledgable and local heroes Cathy Freeman and Ian Thorpe duly delivered.

Freeman lit the Olympic flame, in a somewhat obvious symbol of reconciliation between the native aborigines and the European settlers. Clad in a futuristic running suit, she then won the 400 metres gold medal in the mysterious absence of her main rival Marie-Jose Perec who had fled to her native France.

Thorpe, 17, won three golds and two silvers in the pool, breaking three world records en route, although Australian celebrations were muted by his loss to Dutchman Pieter van den Hoogenband in the 200 metres freestyle.

Van den Hoogenband set world records in the 100 and 200 freestyle while his female compatriot Inge de Bruin set three on the way to the 50 and 100 metres freestyle titles and the 100 metres butterfly.

On the track, Marion Jones fell short of her ambitious target of five gold medals, winning the 100-200 metres double but finishing with a bronze in the long jump and the 4x100 relay.

Jones, who had to cope with the unwelcome pressure of a positive drugs test for her husband C.J. Hunter, then showed the mental strength of a true champion with a blazing third leg for the winning U.S. 4x400 metres relay team.

The track race of the Games, and one of the greatest ever at a major championships, came in the 10,000 metres where Ethiopian Haile Gebrselassie, his usual serene smile replaced by an agonised grimace, caught Paul Tergat on the line to win by nine-hundredths of a second.

And at the age of 38 Briton Steve Redgrave helped the men's coxless fours to an emotional victory for his fifth consecutive Olympic gold. Only Hungarian fencer Aladar Gerevich, who gathered six golds from 1932-60, has won more consecutive titles.

CRICKET MATCH-FIXING SCANDAL

Drugs provided a dark sub-plot again to the Games with four weightlifters stripped of their medals, further undermining the sport's credibility.

But none of the Olympic drugs positives, nor the belated admission by Richard Virenque that he had taken drugs in the infamous 1998 Tour de France, could match the shock waves created by the cricket match-fixing scandal.

Disbelief was succeeded by dismay after reports that South Africa's captain Hansie Cronje, previously viewed as a figure of unbending rectitude, had taken money from bookmakers.

By the end of the year after separate inquiries in South Africa, Pakistan and India, Cronje and two other former test skippers, Salim Malik of Pakistan and Mohammad Azharuddin from India had been banned for life in connection with match-fixing.

Inevitably over-shadowed by the biggest crisis to hit the summer sport of the British commonwealth, Jamaican fast bowler Courtney Walsh became history's leading test wicket-taker and Steve Waugh led Australia to a record 12 test victories in a row.

Australia also won the rugby league World Cup and retained the rugby union Bledisloe Cup against New Zealand after two matches which elevated the game to a new dimension.

The overall Australian sporting prowess is rivalled on a per capita basis by France who won an entertaining European soccer championship to add to their 1998 World Cup.

Zinedine Zidane, named world Player of the Year, was the player of the tournament staged in the Netherlands and Belgium, although the golden goal 2-1 victory over Italy in the final came courtesy of two substitutes in injury time.

The New York Yankees, while not the force of two years ago, remained one of the world's most ruthless sporting dynasties, winning the subway World Series against the Mets.

Michael Schumacher won Formula One's world drivers' title, the first for Ferrari since 21 years, after a gripping duel with Mika Hakkinen in his McLaren while Lance Armstrong won the Tour de France for a second year in a row.

Woods, Sampras, Zidane, Schumacher and Armstrong would have been champions in any era. But the jury in the United States still seems to be out on Britain's world heavyweight boxing champion Lennox Lewis.

Lewis disposed of Michael Grant, Frans Botha and David Tua and few neutrals doubted he would beat Mike Tyson, who continued to self-destruct in and out of the ring.

Maybe Lewis's problem, if it is a problem, is to treat boxing as a science rather than legalised mayhem. In this, like Sampras, he is going against the spirit of the age which craves endless sensation at the expense of substance."	2	5	3	5	1	0		1	2.5	5
241	UK	2008	55	Corporate	"LONDON, Dec 23 (Reuters) - British housebuilder Taylor Wimpey said on Tuesday it will reach an agreement on the deferral of its debt covenants with lenders before the end of this year.

The company, which said previously it is likely to breach interest cover covenants in January 2009 if it cannot reach a deferral agreement with lenders, added an announcement on its overall debt negotiations will be made before its full-year results.

""We are confident that a robust, stable medium term financing solution for the Group, which takes into account the requirements of all relevant stakeholders, will be achieved prior to the announcement of our preliminary results,"" Taylor Wimpey said in an unscheduled announcement.

Shares in Taylor Wimpey slipped as much as 6 percent on Tuesday, as the market failed to be buoyed by the statement.

""It's a deferral of a final announcement,"" Chris Millington, equities analyst at Numis Securities, said.

""I think until we get some sort of formal announcement (about the renegotiation of debt covenants), these sorts of announcements prolong the issue,"" he said.

The company, which noted recent press speculation about its debt covenants and share price movement, said talks with its debt providers are progressing on a ""constructive basis"".

This follows reports of a leaked internal email which said the company was making good progress with its debt talks, in the wake of widespread investor concern that companies in the troubled housebuilding sector may breach interest covenants.

The credit crunch has hit British housebuilders hard, cutting off the supply of easy money for home purchasers that helped prices boom over the last decade and resulting in a slump in the property market. Data from the British Bankers' Association on Tuesday showed the number of mortgages approved for home purchase in Britain dropped to a fresh record low in November.

Millington added the content of the company's statement on Tuesday did not come as a surprise. ""It was so well leaked, there has been a lot of talk about this,"" he said.

""It (the statement) changes nothing at all,"" he added.

"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
452	UK	1994	56	Political	"LONDON, Dec 28 (Reuter) - Three men drowned and two are missing after a speedboat sank in a saltwater lake in Northern Ireland, coastguards said.

They said the boat, with six men in it, overturned in the middle of Strangford Lough south-east of Belfast.

TD 

One man struggled to an island in the lough and raised the alarm by ringing his wife.

Rescue teams have found three bodies and are still searching for the two missing men in poor weather, with heavy rain restricting visibility.

A coastguard spokesman said it was possible that the missing men had reached one of the many islands in the lough. ""Hope is still there for the relatives of those people who are missing,"" he told Sky television news.

(c) Reuters Limited 1994"	1	5	2	5	1	0			1.5	5
324	UK	2009	58	Political	"LONDON, Dec 22 (Reuters) - The Office for National Statistics issued the following seasonally adjusted current account data (million pounds, previously announced data in brackets):

                            Q3 09         Q2 09          
 Current balance           -4,703       -4,375 (-11,424)
 Consensus forecast         -8,000
 Trade in goods           -19,679       -19,742 (-19,886)
 Trade in services         11,812        11,388  (11,306)
 Investment income          6,853         8,349   (1,594)
 Transfers                 -3,557        -4,202  (-4,249)
 Direct invst abroad (nsa)  7,248        -2,027   (5,424) 
 Direct invst in UK  (nsa)  2,393        -3,297   (1,163)
   (Compiled by UK Economics Desk in London)"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
192	UK	1998	60	Political	"LONDON, Dec 29 (Reuters) - Amnesty International on Tuesday condemned moves by the Cambodian government to allow two senior former Khmer Rouge leaders to escape justice over the reign of terror in which some 1.7 million Cambodians died. 

""It is a tragedy for Cambodia that, just as the international community is tackling the issue of impunity for gross violators by establishing an international criminal court, the authorities should be institutionalising impunity for the terrible crimes of the recent past,"" the London-based human rights watchdog said in a statement. 
 
TD 
 Responding to apologies and a plea for the past to be put behind them by former Khmer Rouge leaders Khieu Samphan and Nuon Chea, Amnesty said; ""Bygones are never bygones until the truth has been told."" 

Khieu Samphan and Nuon Chea told a news conference in Phnom Penh on Tuesday they were sorry for the suffering in the killing fields of Cambodia. 

The two, who surrendered last week in western Cambodia, went to Pnom Penh after Prime Minister Hun Sen said it might not be in the national interest to put them on trial and it was time to forget the past. 

Amnesty appealed to Cambodia's King Norodom Sihanouk and the Cambodian government to reverse the decision, saying it believed that impunity was the most serious human rights problem in Cambodia today. 

""Allowing the architects of one of the world's most brutal regimes to escape justice in comfortable retirement, while so many of those whose lives and hopes they destroyed remain mired in poverty, pain and suffering, is a gross insult to the hundreds of thousands of victims of Khmer Rouge brutality,"" Amnesty said. 

""The people of Cambodia are again being sold short by those with the power to help them,"" it added. 

 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
286	UK	2002	60	Political	"LONDON, Dec 26 (Reuters) - The head of the International Atomic Energy Agency said on Thursday that North Korea's steps towards activating nuclear facilities closed since 1994 were ""very worrying"".

A spokesman for the Vienna-based United Nations inspection agency - the IAEA - said on Wednesday that North Korea had moved fresh fuel to a nuclear reactor that produces plutonium used in nuclear warheads.

TD 

""The big worry (is) if they start to operate the reprocessing plant that will produce plutonium, which can be directly used to manufacture nuclear weapons - and there again we have no way to verify the nature of the activity,"" IAEA chief Mohamed ElBaradei told CNN from Sri Lanka.""

""So the situation is very worrying,"" he said in the remarks monitored from London."	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
244	UK	1995	60	Corporate	"LONDON, Dec 27 (Reuter) - European rating agency IBCA said on Wednesday it put the long-term A plus rating for Whitbread Plc on RatingWatch with negative implications. 

""In the past few years Whitbread has moved its business focus away from the depressed UK brewing industry towards food, hotels and leisure activities where there are higher margins."" 
 
TD 
 IBCA said the most significant acquisitions during 1995 were the 180 million stg purchase of 16 Marriott Hotels and the 200 million stg purchase of David Lloyd Leisure. 

""The cost of these acquisitions raised Whitbread's gearing to the top of its historical range at over 20 percent with a corresponding weakening in coverage. Gearing would rise even further with the successful completion of the proposed acquisition of the Forte businesses,"" IBCA said. 

""Although the recent acquisitions have been in line with Whitbread's revised strategy, the financial burden of the Forte purchase would significantly increase the group's financial risk profile,"" it said. 

""Positive cash flow in recent years has been supported by sale proceeds and reduced capital expenditure. However, the group is committed to spending about 300 million stg on capital investments over the next two years which will put further pressure on cash flow,"" the statement said.
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
398	UK	1995	61	Political	"LONDON, Dec 27 (Reuter) - Horse racing in Britain has been wiped out by Arctic weather conditions for the second successive day.

Among Wednesday's casualties was the Kempton Park meeting, so ending hopes of staging the prestigious King George VI Chase, originally scheduled for Tuesday. The race will be transferred to Sandown Park on January 6.

TD 

Kempton fell by the wayside after a morning inspection, with overnight snow adding to the frost problems which saw the track become the last of Tuesday's 10 meetings to be called off.

Britain has now been without racing for six consecutive days, including the four-day scheduled break over Christmas.

Wednesday's other meetings scheduled for Chepstow, which was set to feature the Welsh Grand National, Edinburgh, Leicester and Wetherby were abandoned on Tuesday.

Prospects of racing appear bleak for the rest of the week, with the bad weather forecast to continue.

(c) Reuters Limited 1995"	1	3	1	3	0	2			1	3
461	UK	2008	64	Political	"LONDON, Dec 19 (Reuters Life!) - Local governments in England have seen a spike in applications for state schools, help for the elderly, housing and benefits as an economic downturn bites, a British spending watchdog said on Friday.

The Audit Commission said one in 10 English local authorities had reported an increased demand for state school places, one of the many factors councils were having to cope with as a result of the global credit crunch financial crisis.

TD 

Its report said finances were coming under pressure as more people used council services while revenues to local authorities declined at the same time.

The commission, which questioned chief financial officers at local English councils, said that local authorities seemed well-placed to deal with an expected 2.5 billion pound ($3.74 billion) impact resulting from a crisis that has rocked global financial markets, caused massive job losses and vaporised some of the world's biggest financial institutions.

""While councils are in the firing line and undoubtedly face some very tough choices in the longer term, they should keep a sense of perspective,"" said Steve Bundred, chief executive of the Audit Commission.

""By and large, councils knew this downturn was coming and have planned for it.""

The watchdog said two-thirds of local authorities said they had seen an increase in applications for housing and other benefits, while a quarter reported greater demand for elderly care.

One in seven councils had made compulsory redundancies or intended to.

""These figures demonstrate the effects the credit crunch and the recession are having on councils across the country,"" said Margaret Eaton, chairman of the Local Government Association.

""An increased demand for services such as free school meals, coupled with a drop in the money they can collect, means councils are facing tough times but remain determined to deliver for local people.""

(Reporting by Michael Holden, editing by Paul Casciato)"	3	3	2	2	1	1		1	2.5	2.5
253	UK	1993	64	Corporate	"	
LONDON, Dec 29 (Reuter) - Omani Oil Minister Said bin Ahmed al-Shanfari left Britain and headed for Russia on his mission to try to persuade non-OPEC oil producers to restrain output and support prices, a London airport source said.

On Tuesday both Britain and Norway failed to give Shanfari pledges of any measures to curb North Sea production now.

TD 

The Oman oil ministry undersecretary, Salem Mohammed Shaaban, told Saudi-owned al-Hayat newspaper the tour aimed to try to achieve an output cut of 1.0-1.3 million barrels per day (bpd).

Yemen, Egypt and Syria have said they would like to help.

(c) Reuters Limited 1993"	1	5	1	4	0	1			1	4.5
33	UK	1997	65	Corporate	" LONDON, Dec 29 (Reuters) - British biotechnology group Biocompatibles International Plc said on Monday it had received European regulatory approval for its phosphorylcholine (PC) coated divYsio coronary stents. 

Its share price was up 32-1/2 pence, or more than seven percent, at 487-1/2 pence at 0850 GMT. 
 
TD 
 The 'CE Mark' approval allows the stents to be marketed in Europe and in some countries outside Europe where the CE Mark is recognised, the group said in a statement. 

""This is a major regulatory milestone for Biocompatibles that has been achieved ahead of schedule,"" said president and chief executive Alistair Taylor. 

Approval had been expected in the first quarter of 1998. 

The special coating Biocompatibles uses to cover its stents is designed to limit rejection by the body's defences. 

""CE Mark approval for the divYsio coronary stents will facilitate our ongoing strategic partnership discussions and should provide an important commercial stimulus to sales of the stents in 1998,"" Taylor added. ((London newsroom, +44 171 542 4365, fax +44 171 583 3769, uk.equities.news@reuters.com)) 

 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
184	UK	1990	77	Political	"LONDON, Dec 21, Reuter - The wife of the ""Yorkshire Ripper"" mass murderer lost a libel suit against a British newspaper that said she had an affair with a Greek who looked like her husband. 

The High Court in London ordered Sonia Sutcliffe on Friday to pay the News of the World 300,000 pounds sterling (570,300 dollars) in court costs, nearly erasing her gains from a string of successful law suits against the British press. 
 
TD 
 The jury verdict was Sutcliffe's first loss in seven years of court battles. 

Sutcliffe, whose husband Peter was jailed for life in 1981 for murdering 13 women in Yorkshire, won about 334,000 pounds (635,000 dollars) in libel damages from previous cases. 

In a December 1988 article, the News of the World said Sutcliffe, 40, had a ""sizzling"" affair in Greece with Greek holiday company chief but kept her marriage a secret. 

""I feel sick. I've been kissing and caressing the wife of a monster,"" it quoted the Greek, George Papoutsis, as saying. 

Sutcliffe, legally separated but not divorced from her husband, denied having an affair with the handsome, bearded Greek during the May 1988 trip. 

In the most celebrated of her previous libel actions, the former teacher won a record 600,000 pounds (1.14 million dollars) from the British satirical magazine Private Eye. 

The award prompted prompted calls for a change in the way such payments are assessed. The magazine appealed and the damages were reduced to 60,000 pounds (114,000 dollars). 

Private Eye had accused Sutcliffe of trying to sell her story to a newspaper to capitalise on her husband's notoriety. 
 
"	5	3	5	3	0	0			5	3
392	UK	1996	78	Corporate	"LONDON, Dec 24 (Reuter) - Britain's Department of Trade and Industry said on Tuesday it extended by two months the period allowed to brewers Scottish & Newcastle, Courage Ltd and Fosters Brewing Group Ltd to free up beer supplies to the Inntrepreneur pub chain.

British pubs are often owned by brewers which restrict tenant owners to selling their own brands and that of one competitor, which critics say keeps prices artificially high.

TD 

The DTI said in a statement the companies would be allowed another two months from December 31, 1996 to ""either release from tie to themselves or put to open tender the supply of beer to 500 of Inntrepeneur's pubs.""

Scottish & Newcastle bought Courage in 1995 from Australian brewer Fosters.

The merger, which created one of Britain's top brewing groups, was allowed by competition authorities provided that supply restrictions to Inntrepreneur -- owned by Fosters and Grand Metropolitan Plc -- were loosened.

-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 4019

(c) Reuters Limited 1996"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
21	UK	1999	79	Corporate	"LONDON, Dec 24 (Reuters) - Frozen and chilled food maker Perkins Foods Plc said on Friday it had received an approach from a potential trade buyer. 

It said it was making the announcement after noticing a rise in its share price. It has risen from just under 100 pence a week ago to Thursday's close of 116-1/2p. 
 
TD 
 The company also said it was paying 11.7 million pounds for Dutch company Brink Pluimveeprodukten Holding BV and 1.6 million for Lenders Foods Ltd, a British maker of chilled stir-fry dishes and sauces. 

Perkins gave no further details of the approach it had received and said it would make an announcement when appropriate. 

Brink, its Dutch acquisition, processes frozen and chilled poultry products for sale particularly to British and Dutch food-service and airline catering markets. 

Ian Blackburn, Perkins chief executive, said the trend towards healthy eating promised a rosy future for the white-meat market. 

""We expect significant synergies from both acquisitions,"" he said. 

 
"	1	2	1	2	0	0			1	2
70	UK	2006	85	Corporate	"LONDON, Dec 18 (Reuters) - A group of the 150,000 customers of the collapsed Christmas savings club Farepak suffered a fresh blow on Monday after London's High Court ruled they could not yet receive any refund at this stage. 
 
TD 
 Several hundred Farepak subscribers had hoped to share a one million pound refund in time for Christmas, but judge Justice Mann said that on the evidence put before him at a hearing last Friday, he could not currently rule in their favour. 

Swindon-based Farepak ran a savings scheme for 150,000 people for vouchers and Christmas hampers, but collapsed in October without offering compensation. 

Customers who paid money to the firm through about 25,000 agents on a monthly basis lost an estimated 40 million pounds when Farepak went under. 

The one million pounds at issue relates to money held by agents between Farepak's collapse and the appointment of administrators. 

Mann said that many customers who relied on Farepak for their Christmas hampers would suffer real hardship from its decision to cease trading and accepted that some would say the legal obstacles were ""technical and unmeritorious"". 

But he said they were real issues that he had to resolve. 

""They must be disposed of properly and on the basis of law, not purely on the basis of sympathy and Christmas,"" he said. 

At a second hearing later on Monday, Lexa Hilliard, a lawyer for the administrators, said no solution could be found before Christmas. 

The case will now return to court at some date in the new year. 

Even if ultimately successful, the claimants might receive between just 5 and 50 pounds each, a tiny fraction of the amount said to have been lost by Farepak's subscribers. 

A separate fund set up to help those affected by the firm's collapse raised more than six million pounds which it was hoped would be shared out between the customers before Christmas. 
 
"	1	3	1	3	0	0			1	3
58	UK	1996	91	Corporate	"LONDON, Dec 24 (Reuter) - British bid target Northern Electric said on Tuesday that it did not know whether its institutional investor, Prudential Corporation, was trying to buy its shares in an attempt to defeat a hostile takeover. 

""I can't confirm that it (the Prudential) is,"" a spokesman said. ""I can only speculate."" 
 
TD 
 The company believes that Prudential, which has sold its stakes in other regional UK electricity companies that have already been taken over, may think the 650 pence per share offered by U.S. utility CE Electric is too cheap. 
 
"	1	1	1	1	0	0			1	1
269	UK	2003	92	Corporate	"LONDON, Dec 18 (Reuters) - UK airport operator BAA Plc (BAA.L) said on Thursday it would not rule out turning to the equity markets to help pay for a new runway at London's Stansted airport.

Chief Executive Mike Clasper also told reporters the firm may look at using revenue from its other airports to pay for the runway, a move that would run contrary to a ruling by regulators earlier this year.

TD 

""We are not ruling it in, we're not ruling it out,"" Clasper said both when asked whether BAA would consider tapping the markets and when he was queried about ""cross-subsidising"", or funding the building programme through revenue from its other airports, which include Heathrow and Gatwick.

The British government approved an expansion of Stansted on Tuesday as part of a 30-year strategy to cope with soaring demand for air travel, particularly in England's crowded south-east.

BAA has said the expansion would cost around four billion pounds ($7 billion), with the first phase costing about two billion."	1	4	1	4	0	0			1	4
455	UK	2002	96	Political	"LONDON, Dec 21 (Reuters) - England and Australia ought to boycott their World Cup fixtures in Zimbabwe while Robert Mugabe is president of the African country, former England captain David Gower said on Sunday.

""I don't think it is right that England should be playing a match in Harare on February 13, 2003, or on any other day while the Robert Mugabe regime remains in power in Zimbabwe,"" Gower wrote in a column Britain's The Sunday Times newspaper.

TD 

""Nor do I think the Australians, as the other main Commonwealth nation involved in the same World Cup group, should honour their fixture in Bulawayo 11 days later,"" he said.

Six matches in the World Cup, taking place primarily in South Africa, are scheduled to be hosted by Zimbabwe, three in Harare involving England, India and Namibia and another three in Bulawayo featuring Australia, Pakistan and the Netherlands.

The International Cricket Council (ICC), the game's world ruling body, announced on Thursday that the World Cup matches would go ahead in the African country.

The ICC said that a 10-man delegation that had monitored the situation in Zimbabwe last month had found ""no good reason in terms of the safety and security of the players to relocate any of the six matches.""

Fears had been expressed over player safety after political upheaval and violence in Zimbabwe following implementation of the Mugabe government's controversial land reforms.

Gower wrote that the players would almost certainly be safe with the Harare government ""bending over backwards"" to shelter them from the country's problems and show the world Zimbabwe was a safe place.

But he trashed the ICC view that playing there would be of benefit to the beleaguered Zimbabwean people.

""Just what percentage of that population does (ICC chief executive Malcolm Speed) think will get anywhere near the cricket or benefit from it in any shape or form?"" he asked.

Present England captain Nasser Hussain has said he is in no position to do more than follow ICC recommendations.

Other protestors seeking an England boycott of the Zimbabwe matches look set to take their arguments a lot further, the Sunday Telegraph reported.

It said a human rights group called Zimactivism have threatened to dig up the pitches at the two World Cup venues and have been urging Zimbabwe players to pull out of the February 8-March 23 tournament.

Labour MP Frank Field has formed a multi-party group to protest against the Mugabe regime and is calling on the England team to boycott the Zimbabwe matches."	1	5	1	4	0	1			1	4.5
															
															
															
